

===== PAGE 1 =====

IIM Ahmedabad
Consult Prep Book
2024-2025

===== PAGE 2 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Case Book, Consult Club, Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad. 11/e
© 2024, Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad. All rights reserved.
Notice
No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means – electronic or mechanical, including photocopy, 
recording or any information storage and retrieval system – without permission in writing from the Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad.
First edition: July 2014
Second edition: August 2015
Third edition: September 2016
Fourth edition: September 2017
Fifth edition: September 2018
Sixth edition: August 2019
Seventh edition: September 2020
Eighth edition: September 2021
Ninth edition:                      September 2022
Tenth edition:                      September 2023
Eleventh edition: September 2024
Disclaimer
The Consult Club has used external references and sources to compile this resource, however, we have not independently cross-verified
the data obtained from these sources. Readers should be aware that data accuracy and reliability may vary among sources and may consume
the data and figures presented in the casebook accordingly. Consult Club cannot be held accountable or liable for any errors, omissions, or
inaccuracies found within this document. Furthermore, while we have made reasonable efforts to proof-read and quality-check the content
of the Prep Book, the possibility of errors cannot be entirely eliminated. Readers are encouraged to exercise caution and seek additional
information or professional assistance as needed, especially for critical and important data points.
Issue details and copyright
2024-2025 Page 2

===== PAGE 3 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
A blue and white triangle with a building and text
Description automatically generated
A blue and white triangle design with trees and buildings
Description automatically generated
A blue and white rectangular object with text
Description automatically generated
Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad, is proud to present the 11th edition of the IIMA Case Book, a holistic and all-in-one document that bundles
key resources required to ace consulting interviews. This preparation document aims to equip the readers with a holistic understanding of the
highly featured case types in consulting interviews, supplemented with guesstimates and industry reports that will come in handy during the
preparation. Each case type is supplemented by an exhaustive and tried-and-tested framework(s) that can be used to solve these cases and
nudge the reader toward developing a critical-thinking approach and problem-solving mindset. The cases and the guesstimates in this document
also draw from the real-life interview experiences of candidates with leading consulting firms to keep the content relevant.
This edition comprises of 96 cases, 22 guesstimates and 25 panorama reports. We have added 14 new cases, 7 new guesstimates
and 5 new panorama reports to provide you with a better preparation experience! We recommend supplementing case practice with
industry reports to capture industry-specific learning better. In this edition, we have also linked the relevant industry reports with cases,
wherever applicable, for quick reference. While preparing for case-solving, the goal is to develop the consulting thinking-process and that there
is no one right solution for any case statement, be it the cases in this document or the final interview questions. The case book also contains a
compilation of Important Frameworks to refer to while structuring case-solving, a Consulting Primer, and a Toolkit with a list of tips and tools
to aid in preparation.
We sincerely hope this document provides you with what you need to ace your consulting interviews! Lastly, a huge shout-out to the Consult
Club team of IIM Ahmedabad for working incredibly hard to deliver this case book!
Introducing the IIM Ahmedabad Consult Prep Book
2024-2025
A blue and white cover with a building and text
Description automatically generated
Varun Vaziraney
Coordinator
Consult Club, 2024-25
IIM Ahmedabad
Shikhar Prakash
Cell Head – Publications
Consult Club, 2024-25
IIM Ahmedabad
Page 3

===== PAGE 4 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Acknowledgements
We want to thank the Consult Club team that helped put together this 11th edition of the Consult Prep Book, 2024-25. We would like to thank
Varun Vaziraney, Coordinator, Consult Club (PGP 2023-25) for his overall guidance and unwavering support in ensuring the successful creation
and delivery of this resource. We would like to thank Shikhar Prakash, Cell Head - Publications, Consult Club (PGP 2023-25) for leading all the
initiatives with thorough professionalism, and delivering this integrated and comprehensive output.
We are grateful to all the people that have helped by sharing their cases and interview experiences, which has enabled us to put together a
comprehensive preparation resource for the current and future batches.
IIM Ahmedabad Case Book
We would like to thank Abhijit Bhalachandra, Ashraya Maria, Dhruv Jain and Umang Tyagi (PGP 2023-25) for leading the Case Book initiative. We
would also like to acknowledge the efforts of Devavrat Wagle, Kaashif Mohsin, Kaustabh Chatterjee and Sushruti Verma (PGP 2024-26) for
helping the club put together this case book. They have ensured breadth and depth in the cases to give the readers a comprehensive view.
Industry-wise Panorama Reports
We would like to thank Anjanee Khosla, Gaurav B N and Saket Athalye (PGP 2023-25) for leading the Industry-wise Panorama Reports initiative
and putting together this revamped edition. We would also like to acknowledge the efforts of Abhishek L, Alok Ranjan and Vrinda Khandelwal
(PGP 2024-26) for helping the club put this together. They have ensured that the analysis of key industries relevant for consulting preparation are
presented in a thorough, yet easy-to-understand manner.
We would also like to extend a special acknowledgement to Karthik Rajaraman (PGP 2023-25), Amit Date, Muskaan Bhalotia, Sahil Malani and
Samruddhi Chokhda (PGP 2024-26) for their contribution to the Publications team in helping finalize this document. We would like to thank the
following people for their contribution to cases, guesstimates and panorama reports: Venkataraman Ganesh (PGP 2023-25), Arnav Garg, Deepak
Kumar Pandit, Deepak Kumar Singh, Kopal Agrawal, Nayan Kumar Nahata, Nishakar Kumar, Sanyam Gupta and Yash Khandelwal (PGP 2024-26).
We would also like to thank the broader student groups of the PGP 2023-25 and 2024-26 batches, many of whose submissions have added
unmatched richness to the Prep book. We also want to thank the contributors of the previous editions of the IIMA Consult Prep Book and IIMA
Caselet as well as numerous Consult Club alumni whose submissions and feedback, over the years, have shaped this document, and created a
brilliant base for us from where we could build further to create this edition of the Consult Prep Book.
We would also like to extend our deep and heartfelt gratitude to Mr. Tushar Patel for graciously letting us use his beautiful photographs of the
IIM Ahmedabad campus.
2024-2025 Page 4

===== PAGE 5 =====

IIM Ahmedabad 
Case Book
2024-2025


===== PAGE 6 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
While reading this Case Book, we suggest the reader should use the interview transcripts to set up a case between 2 people (or
groups). After solving the case, the solution process sheet should be looked at to gain a broader understanding of the approach, a
model solution and potential areas of improvement.
The frameworks are there to give a direction initially to new case-solvers and should not be treated as a fixed boundary but could be
utilized by the reader to cover any case which comes up their way according to their own logical structure. Also, the reader should
leverage the recommendations, tips, and suggestions to apply learnings from one case to another.
Remember, the journey is as important as the destination. Case preparation is a group exercise with individual self-preparation as well.
Also, most of the cases are linked to the Panorama report of the industry they are related to. With this edition, you can easily
and quickly access the relevant Panorama report for quick reference. Watch out for these links in the approach page of the cases to
open the relevant industry’s Panorama report (as denoted by the icon below, which you can find in the cases)!
It is advisable to go through the reports regardless, to get a better understanding of the industries, which is often important for
preparation process. The first page for each industry report is meant to narrate a story to aid understanding while the following page will
give a deep-dive into the industry.
Finally, the Consulting Primer and the Toolkit Strengthening section will provide you with additional tips and knowledge pieces
about Consulting and the preparation process in general.
We hope you find the prep book useful and wish you the best of luck in your case preparation journey!
Best regards,
Consult Club, 2024-25
IIM Ahmedabad
How to use this book?
2024-2025
Click here for 
Panorama Report!
Page 6

===== PAGE 7 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Table of Contents (1/3)
Particulars Sector Rigor Page
Structure of case interview, approach 10
Important Frameworks 13
Preamble to Case Solving (with 
Introductory Case) 28
A. Profitability
1. Beer Manufacturer Distillers Easy 34
2. Lease Fee Aviation Moderate 36
3. Auto Insurance BFSI Moderate 38
4. Education Provider Education Moderate 40
5. Oil distributor Oil and Gas Moderate 42
6. Diagnostic center Healthcare Easy 44
7. Fishing company Fishing Moderate 46
8. SpiceJet vs Indigo Aviation Challenging 48
9 Home Loan Provider BFSI Moderate 50
10. Port Operator Logistics Moderate 52
11. Fast Food Industry F&B Challenging 54
12. Textile (Retail) Textile Challenging 57
13. Beverage Manufacturer F&B Challenging 59
14. Water Purifier Manufacturer Industrials Moderate 62
15. Meal Coupon Company Services Moderate 64
16. Steel Industry Steel Challenging 66
17. Banking BFSI Moderate 68
18. Restaurant F&B Challenging 70
19. Seat Manufacturer Manufacturing Easy - Mod 72
20. Battery Manufacturer Durables Moderate 74
21. Zoomcar Services Moderate 76
Particular Sector Rigor Page
22. Chartered Flight Operator Aviation Moderate 78
23. Grocery Retail Store Retail Challenging 80
24. Urban Company Services Moderate 83
B. Market entry
25. Production House Entertainment Easy 86
26. Online Dating App Consumer Tech Moderate 88
27. Insurance Company BFSI Moderate 90
28. Healthcare Test Kit Manufacturer Healthcare Easy 92
29. Skin Care Manufacturer Personal Care Moderate 94
30. EV Manufacturer Automobile Moderate 96
31. Fintech in UAE market BFSI Challenging 98
32. European Airline (Growth Objective) Aviation Challenging 101
33. Fantasy Gaming App Consumer Tech Challenging 103
34. Galileo’s Telescope Manufacturing Challenging 105
35. Petrochemical Company Petrochemical Challenging 107
C. Pricing
36. Helicopter Service Transport Moderate 110
37. Superspeed Travel Transport Moderate 112
38. 5G Plan Pricing Telecom Moderate 114
39. Cow Feed Husbandry Moderate 116
40. IPL Bidding Sports Challenging 118
41. Drug Pricing Pharma Challenging 120
42. Road Congestion Issue Public Policy Challenging 122
D. Growth strategy
43. Apparel manufacturer Textile Moderate 126
2024-2025
 Page 7

===== PAGE 8 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Particulars Sector Rigor Page
44. Elevator manufacturer Manufacturing Moderate 128
45. E-grocery player Retail eCom Moderate 130
46. 2w-3w manufacturer Automobile Moderate 132
47. E-commerce E-commerce Challenging 134
48. Fertilizer manufacturer Agriculture Moderate-
Challenging 136
49. Newspaper Company Media Moderate 138
50. Midstream oil & gas company Oil & Gas Challenging 140
51. Wool Yarn manufacturer Manufacturing Challenging 142
52. Indian PSU Transport Challenging 144
53. OTT Platform Growth Media Challenging 146
E. M&A + Due Diligence
54. AI Startup Acquisition E-Commerce Easy 150
55. PE Investment for a road asset Private Equity Moderate 152
56. IPL Team Sport Mgmt. Moderate 154
57. Chain of Phoenix Malls Real Estate Moderate-
Challenging 156
58. Online Grocery Start-up E-commerce Moderate 159
59. Sovereign Fund Sports Mgmt. Challenging 161
60. Pepper Spray Manufacturer Manufacturing Challenging 164
61. Pharma Giant's Acquisition Pharma Challenging 166
62. Private Equity Firm Social Impact Challenging 168
63. Co-working Space Services Moderate 170
64. AI Enterprise Acquisition for 
Ecosystem Intergration
Consumer 
Tech Challenging 172
F. Unconventional Cases
Overview: Tips and Tricks 175
65. Bid Strategy for GOT Season 8 Entertainment Challenging 176
Particulars Sector Rigor Page
66. Increased Processing Time Packaging Moderate 178
67. TT Association of India Sports Easy 180
68. Steel Manufacturing Firm Steel Easy 182
69. Pharmaceutical Company Pharma Moderate 184
70. ’Go Green’ Strategy Aviation Moderate 186
71. Engagement Assessment Retail Retail Moderate 188
72. Declining website traffic Media Moderate 190
73. Public Distribution System Public Sector Moderate 192
74. UK Oil Crisis Energy Sector Moderate 194
75. Purchase of Dog Abstract Moderate 196
76. Ski Slope Hospitality Moderate 198
77. Horizontal integration in e-commerce E-commerce Challenging 200
78. Food Delivery Service Provider Food Delivery Moderate 202
79. Threat of new entrant Retail Challenging 204
80. Petrol Pump Loyalty Card Petrol Pump Challenging 206
81. Level of Educational Attainment Education Policy Moderate 208
82. Retail Chain (Digital transformation) Retail Moderate 210
83. Digital Transformation of FMCG Client FMCG Moderate 212
84. Oil and Gas (Project Management) Oil & Gas Challenging 214
85. FMCG- Supply chain optimization FMCG Challenging 216
86. Commercial Vehicle Loan BFSI Moderate 218
87. Rural Credit Rating for MFI BFSI Moderate 220
88. FMCG FMCG Challenging 222
89 Post-Merger Workforce Integration HR Strategy Moderate 224
90. Cab Aggregator Automotives Challenging 226
91. Increasing Returned Orders Retail Moderate 228
92. Children in School Education Moderate 230
Table of Contents (2/3)
2024-2025
 Page 8

===== PAGE 9 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Particulars Sector Page
G. Guesstimates
Introduction + Tips and Tricks 241
1. Gold Flake Cigarettes Tobacco 242
2. Ads streamed on YouTube Entertainment 243
3. Number of Red Bricks at IIMA Construction 244
4. Shoes sold in Mumbai Retail 245
5. Home renovation market Services 246
6. Maternity Wear Market Retail 247
7. Money spent on Tea Consumption F&B 248
8. Monthly Residential Electricity 
Consumption Electricity 249
9. Annual revenue of multiplex Entertainment 250
10. Monthly revenue of Tata Play Digital 251
11. Toll tax collected across India Government 252
12. Food Consumed by Birds Unconventional 253
13. Snapchat streaks Social Media 254
14. Market Size for Sanitary Pads Healthcare 255
15. Bullets fired in India Unconventional 256
16. Number of PPT Slides Prepared Education 257
17. Number of chess moves Gaming 258
18. Number of injections in Ahmedabad Healthcare 259
Table of Contents (3/3)
2024-2025
Particulars Sector Rigor Page
93. ISRO Lunar Manned Mission Space Sector Moderate 232
94. Bollywood Superstar investing 
in Pro-Kabaddi Entertainment Moderate 234
95. Digitising Gold Loans BFSI Challenging 236
96. Green Skill India Public Policy Moderate 238
Particulars Sector Page
19. Number of Electronic Voting Machines Government 260
20. Number of Hours Spent at Library Education 261
21. Number of soldiers in trenches during WW2 Unconventional 262
22. Number of Hours Spent in Extra 
Curricular Activities Education and Entertainment 263
Sector Page
H. Industry-wise Panorama Reports
1. Airlines 265
2. Asset Management 267
3. Automobiles 269
4. Banking 271
5. Cable TV and OTT 273
6. Cement 275
7. E-Commerce 277
8. EdTech 279
9. Electric Vehicles 281
10. Food Delivery 283
11. Food Processing 285
12. FMCG 287
Sector Page
13. Healthcare 289
14. Hospitality 291
15. Insurance 293
16. IT & ITES 295
17. Logistics 297
18. Music 299
19. Online Gaming 301
20. Oil & Gas 303
21. Payments 305
22. Pharmaceuticals 307
23. Power 309
24. Retail 311
25. Telecom 313
Latest additions and key 
updates to the casebook
Page 9

===== PAGE 10 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Structure of a Consulting Case Interview
Interviews usually test the candidates on both or any of the following criteria:
• Personality/behavioural questions (through HRQ)
• Problem solving (through cases and/or guesstimates)
Personality / Behavioural (through HRQs)
Candidates are strongly advised to be prepared for any kind of question that may pop-up from the information mentioned in their CVs, 
particularly past work experience, internships or projects, besides the most famous questions like what are your strengths and weaknesses, why 
consulting, why this particular firm.
Problem Solving (Case Interviews)
• Expectations
Case interviews are used to measure candidates’ ability to assess an unfamiliar situation, uncover relevant and minute details while applying 
their thought process to come up with one or more possible solutions to the problem, and finally communicating their recommendations in a 
structured manner.
• Approach
The basic approach to solving a case interview is: First, understanding the problem and requirements, then identifying a structure that would 
help one solve the problem, then analysing the information available and finally, reaching a conclusion & giving recommendations
Clarify Structure Analyse Conclude
2024-2025 Page 10

===== PAGE 11 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
How to Approach a Case Interview
Understand & clarify the problem statement
• Candidates must be absolutely sure that they have clearly understood the problem statement, a mistake committed here has the biggest potential to ruin the
entire interview.
• Ask clarifying questions in the beginning; someone who asks the right questions is better able to understand the complete problem and has a higher chance to
come up with an accurate solution.
• It is not unusual for the interviewer to not divulge all the relevant information at once because they also try to test the candidates on their ability to extract
information; the obvious purpose is to see how well the candidate may be able to do the same while interacting with clients.
• Do not make any assumptions unless necessary; if a candidate wishes to do, then its always better to communicate with the interviewer to get them validated.
Structure the problem
• This involves putting all the data received together and making a sense out of it. The A4 sheet technique is very helpful for this, however, candidates may use
their own methods according to comfort level.
• Candidates should try to keep their structure as simple as possible because in some cases, the interviewer may ask for the working sheet, and accordingly should
be able to understand the approach followed by just glancing at the sheet at once.
• Frameworks can be used for in structuring of data; however, do not try to force fit any framework just for the sake of using it. Also, whenever a framework is
used, the candidates should communicate their approach of reaching the solution to the interviewer rather than saying that “I’m using market entry framework”.
Analyse the case
• This is the main stage of the problem-solving process wherein the candidates are required to draw inferences from the gathered information. The process is
aided by the structure they decide to follow using the chosen framework, if any.
• Candidates should ask two questions to themselves: a) How did this data point look like earlier for us?, and b) How does this data point look like for the
competitors?
• It is suggested that candidates develop a hypothesis consisting of various possible solutions, ask leading questions to validate their hypothesis, and keep on
narrowing their set based on the discussion. The candidate should continuously communicate with the interviewer to let them know of one’s thought process.
More often than not, the interviewers will help the candidate get back on track if they see that the person is thinking in the wrong direction.
• In case the candidate realizes that some data is still missing, do not hesitate to ask questions to extract it from the interviewer. No one will provide the
information on their own but will surely help if well-directed questions are asked.
Arrive at a conclusion
• This is the last stage of problem-solving and perhaps the determinant of a candidate’s success in getting through the interview. All efforts put in thus far are of
little use if the candidate is unable to come up with a proper conclusion backed by a logical implementation plan.
• Try to ensure that the recommendations are close to reality since it increases their chances of being implementable in real life scenarios. Remember, concrete
solutions fetch more marks than broad vague answers.
• Before finally communicating the solution, do a quick “sanity check”, that is, evaluate if the proposed solution, particularly if its quantitative in nature, makes
sense or not. This can be done by using bottom-up strategy if the original answer was derived following top-down approach or vice-a-versa.
2024-2025 Page 11

===== PAGE 12 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Some Do’s & Don’ts for the Interviews
Do’s
• Build rapport: It plays a crucial role in how the interview pans out eventually. The opening interaction, continuous communication and patient-listening skills
contribute to building rapport and thus, strengthening the candidature from the communication aspect of the interview.
• Be confident: Remain confident throughout the interview even if there’s a feeling that things aren’t going as expected. This exhibits an important trait of being
able to maintain composure and handle critical situations, which are part and parcel of a consultant’s life. Also, it has been seen that the interviewers more likely
than not drop hints to help the candidate get back on track, hence, watch out for those in case there’s a feeling of getting stuck
• Drive the interview towards your strong zone: The candidates can try to drive the interview towards the areas they are comfortable talking on. This can be
done by using examples related to their domain area while answering the questions put forward by the interviewers. However, be mindful of not making it an
irrelevant reference or overdoing it if the interviewer isn’t interested in talking about that.
• Positive body-language: Try to be positive and cheerful throughout the interaction as it may help to cover a small mistake, if any, the candidate might have
committed while solving the case. Further, candidates are evaluated on their overall presentation, that includes body language and communication skills apart
from the most sought-after problem-solving skills.
• Closing note: The candidate should end the interview with a smile even if it wasn’t the best of the interviews; sometimes even the candidate’s positive approach
may work in the favour and overshadow a mediocre interview.
Don’ts
• Interrupt the interviewer: This should never be done since there is a risk of missing out on some important information which the interviewer would have
otherwise divulged. Further, it gives an impression that the candidate is impatient, and might not be a good team player.
• Assume any information unless explicitly given by the interviewer: Usually on getting a case from a familiar background or applying association rule, candidates
tend to presume certain information. This should strictly not be done unless the interviewer gives the information explicitly. However, if a candidate has some
prior information, either clarify that through questions from the interviewer or suggest that as a possible solution to the given problem.
• Get bogged down by frameworks: Frameworks are useful in structuring one’s thoughts but should not become an impediment to “out of the box” thinking. For
instance, an acquisition may be used to improve profitability; however, that would not fall under any of the conventional frameworks.
• Be Mechanical: Candidates are advised not to be mechanical while answering questions related to their personal experience as it gives an impression that the
answer has been well rehearsed. Try to read the cues of the interviewers and involve them in the discussions.
• Panic: Mistakes do happen, either in calculations or while speaking on a topic. It is important not to freak out in such moments; rather as soon as a mistake has
been committed, be ready to own up and admit it.
2024-2025 Page 12

===== PAGE 13 =====

Important 
Frameworks


===== PAGE 14 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Profitability Framework
Page 14
Approach/Framework
Profits
Revenues Costs
Price
Procurement 
Issue
# Units Sold
Demand Side Supply Side
Product Mix
Production 
Issue
Distribution 
Issue
Revenue/
Customer # of Customers
Product Place Promotion
● Need
● Affordability
● Accessibility
● Availability
● Awareness
● After-sales 
experience
Value Chain 
Analysis
(Next Page)
Profitability problems require analysis of revenues and costs of a company to zero in on the cause of decreasing/increasing profitability.
Thorough understanding of revenue and cost heads for various industries can help bring out key insights and reach valuable
recommendations.
Initial questions
• Get primitive understanding of 
company:  What product/services 
does it offer?  What geography 
does it cater to?
• Understand whether this is a 
company specific problem or an 
industry-wide phenomenon
• Keep in the mind the quantum of 
profit/losses and the time period
Profit vs Profitability
• Profits are merely a difference of 
Revenues and Cost, while 
Profitability refers to profit as a 
proportion of sales 
Units Sold
• It can also be broken down as 
‘Internal’ and ‘External’ factors; 
Internal issues being similar to the 
Supply Side break-down and 
External issues to be examined via 
PESTEL analysis
• Demand can be seen as: Market 
Size * Market Share
2024-2025

===== PAGE 15 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Profitability Framework
Page 15
Value Chain Analysis
(Cost-side Analysis)
● Equipment / Tech.
● Human Capital
● Financing
● Patents
Research & 
Development
Raw Material 
Procurement
Production Storage & 
Transportation
Distribution Marketing After - Sales 
Support
● Cost of Raw Mat.
● Contracts / Deals
● Supplier Party
● Wastage / Use 
Efficiency
● Machinery
● Factory Rent
● Electricity
● Labour Hours
● Technology
● Capacity Utilisation
● Packaging
● Defects
● Transport to 
Warehouse (routes, 
vehicles)
● Storage Facility (rent, 
electricity, labour)
● Transport to customer 
(routes, vehicles)
● Sales Force
● Sales channels
● Training
● Incentives
● Channels
● Spend on each channel 
(physical / digital)
● Conversion rates / 
channel
● Repairs
● Spare Parts
● Returns
● Costs can be also be divided as (depending on the type of problem statement & the information available):
- Direct & Indirect Costs
- Fixed & Variable Costs
2024-2025

===== PAGE 16 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Market Entry Framework
Page 16
Approach / Framework
● Segments
● Needs
● Size & growth
● Target Group
● Market Share
Customer Company Competition Product
● Product Mix
● Resources
● Key Assets
● Value Chain Analysis 
(feasibility of setting 
up: procurement -
production -
distribution
● Financial Analysis 
(break-even point)
● No. of 
competitors & 
market share
● SWOT Analysis
● Barriers to 
entry/exit -
regulations
● Gap between 
customer 
expectations and 
available products
How to enter
Set up greenfield 
operations
Brownfield 
investment -
Acquisitions
Joint venture Outsourcing
A market entry case (whether new product launch or entry into new geography or both) is hinged on two basic questions: Is it worthwhile
entering the market (economically and strategically) and if yes, what would be the best way to enter the market.
Initial questions
• Always ask about company’s 
objective to enter that 
particular market
• Get primitive understanding of 
company: what it does? What 
product to launch? Previous 
history with launches & why 
this particular 
geography/product launch? 
What part of value chain does 
it want to set-up?
Analysis
• It can also be done using 
Economic Analysis: Mkt. Size * 
Mkt. Share * (Price - Variable 
Cost) - Fixed Cost and 
Operational Feasibility: 
regulatory/other barriers in 
setting up a value chain -
explore need to partner with 
others or enter into JVs in each 
bucket
2024-2025

===== PAGE 17 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
New Product Introduction Framework
Page 17
Approach/Framework
New Product
Initial Financing Value Chain
Self
financed
Debt
financed
Equity
financed
Marketing
Profits & break-
even
DistributionProductionProcurement
Fixed 
Costs
Variable 
CostsPriceUnits 
Sold
In a new product entry case, a company is likely to aim for introducing a completely new product in a market or expand its existing product’s 
reach in a new geography.  An interviewee is expected to first align on the product’s viability to succeed in the market followed by identifying 
the correct price point and target market and finally recommend levers that can drive product success in the market.
Initial questions
• Always ask about company’s 
objective to launch a new 
product
• Get primitive understanding of 
company: what it does? More 
about the new product, target 
customers? Previous history 
with launches & why this 
geography/product launch? 
What part of value chain will it 
operate in?
Analysis
• The pros and cons associated 
with each bucket have to be 
brought out in the analysis, with 
having ready suggestions on 
how to overcome the possible 
challenges
2024-2025

===== PAGE 18 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Pricing Framework
Page 18
Approach/Framework
Pricing vis-a-vis 
another product
Nature of Product
New invention Similar to existing 
product
Modification to 
existing products
● Willingness to Pay
● Opportunity cost of 
having no product
● Supply Demand trade-off
Value Based Cost Plus Competitor Based
● Fixed costs
● Variable Costs
● Break-even Analysis
● Existing products and 
features
● Reference Price
● Willingness to Pay of 
current market
In a pricing case the objective is to determine a methodology for pricing of any product. The product could be a new invention, it could have 
other competitor products in the market etc. The student should determine the objective of the company, understand the product features and 
market environment and then apply a relevant methodology to price the product.
Initial questions
• Always ask about company’s 
objective for pricing the 
product
• Get primitive understanding of 
company: what it does? More 
about the product, target 
customers?
• Depending on objectives of 
profitability or market share or 
breaking even, recommend an 
appropriate approach
Analysis
• Some parameters like 
Willingness to pay, opportunity 
cost of having no products 
might not be directly provided 
by the interviewer, so try to 
develop creative proxies for 
the same which would 
determine the accuracy of your 
recommendation
2024-2025

===== PAGE 19 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Growth Framework
Page 19
Approach/Framework
Inorganic
New Product
Organic
Revenue/User Joint 
Ventures Acquisitions# of Users
Revenue / 
Transaction
# of 
Transactions/
User
Existing 
Markets
New 
Markets
Existing 
Product New Product Existing 
Product New Product
● Cross-
selling
● Loyalty 
programs
● Discounts
● Bundling
● Upselling
● New 
channels
● Better 
marketing
● New 
marketing
● New 
customer 
segments
● Marketing
● Channels
● New 
customer 
segments
● New 
marketing, 
channels
In a Growth scenario, a company is likely to aim for XX% YoY growth. An interviewee is expected to first align the growth targets, followed by
validating them, identify pillars that can support the growth targets, and finally recommend how the company can leverage/show go about these
pillars.
Initial questions
• Get primitive 
understanding of 
company: what it does? 
More about the 
product, target 
customers? What 
geographies?
Analysis
• The framework is a 
comprehensive version 
of the Ansoff Matrix, so 
the probing questions, 
the analysis and 
recommendations can 
be given keeping that in 
mind
• The creativity around 
the recommendations 
in exploring new 
channels/segments will 
earn brownie points
● Increase 
prices
2024-2025

===== PAGE 20 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Mergers & acquisition provide means of inorganic growth for a company. It is important to evaluate a prospective merger or acquisition using
a framework to understand the net benefits the acquirer can receive including financial as well as non-financial factors.
Mergers & Acquisition Frameworks
Page 20
Approach/Framework
Net Benefits
Financial Non-Financial
Value Added
Company 
Valuation Synergies
Costs
Acquisition 
Price
Integration 
Costs
External RisksAcquirer Fit
Initial Questions
1. Understand client’s company
Questions can be asked to learn
about client’s company, its
current state, industry in which
it operates, growth strategy and
aspirations.
2. Understand target company
Questions can be asked to
understand the target’s market,
market share, profitability, and
its competitors.
Financial Non-Financial
Value Addition
1. Valuation: Target company’s
valuation indicate the present
value of cash flows it can
generate in future based on its
current capital structure
2. Synergies: Synergies are
additional benefits derived from
combined assets of acquirer
and target.
Synergies
1. Operational:
• Revenue – Selling more
quantity or higher pricing
• Costs – Economies of
scale/scope, savings in R&D or
selling (SG&A) costs
2. Financial: Potential tax savings,
(shield) improved leverage
ratio, ability to take more debt
Costs
1. Acquisition price: This price is
quoted to the acquirer for this
M&A. Typically, the price value
will be given by the interviewer.
2. Integration costs: Costs
incurred during M&A process
for integration of IT systems,
operation processes and
organizational structure.
Acquirer Fit
1. Cultural Fit: Working norms,
countries, entrepreneurial vs
corporate, etc.
2. Organizational Fit: Similarity in
org structure, talent & skill set
overlap, etc.
3. Strategy Fit: Alignment in long-
term growth strategies
External Risks: To be analyzed
using PESTEL framework
2024-2025

===== PAGE 21 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Due Diligence Framework
Page 21
Approach/Framework
Before acquiring a stake in a target company, a private equity fund usually conducts a comprehensive due diligence process. One part of the 
diligence is the commercial due diligence, wherein the fund leverages the expertise of consulting firms to focus on the business aspect of the 
target. This commercial DD framework, which has some similarities with the M&A framework, can be applied in any case wherein the client, 
not necessarily a PE fund at all times, wants to ascertain the commercial viability of the prospective investment.
Initial questions
• Start with understanding the client’s profile and 
past investments
• Make sure to understand the objective behind the 
prospective investment and incorporate that in 
your insights
Analysis
• Market: Determine whether the market is 
attractive to invest in. Like market entry cases, 
market sizing will be at the core of this.
• Competition: Benchmark the target with its 
competitors to determine relative strength. 
Ascertain how the target is differentiated and 
whether the differentiation is sustainable.
• Business: Understand financial factors such as 
monetization and fundraising as well as non-financial 
factors like operations, team, workforce strength
• Customer: Segment customers based on various 
criteria and analyse key metrics to understand if 
customers are loyal to the target
Due diligence
Pre-diligence
Investor profile
Existing 
investments
Investment 
objective
Market
• Sizing
• Future outlook
• Key drivers
Competition
• Benchmarking
• Differentiation
• Moat
Valuation & 
transaction
Growth 
strategy
Exit options
Business
• Financial
• Non-financial
Customers
• Behavioural
• Psychographic
• Firmographic
Post-diligenceDiligence
2024-2025

===== PAGE 22 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Common Frameworks
Page 22
SWOT Matrix
PESTEL Analysis
P E S T E L
Political
Weakness
• Factors resisting a company against operating at 
its optimum level in the market
• Ex. lack of capital, high leverage, higher than 
market attrition, weaker brand image
Threats
• External factors which can potentially harm the 
company’s profitability or operations in general
• Ex. increasing competition, natural calamities, 
limited labor supply, upcoming regulations
Strength
• Factors providing a competitive advantage to the 
company against its competitors
• Ex. loyal customer base, strong brand, skilled 
employees, proprietary technology
Opportunities
• External factors favorable for the company to 
build a sustainable competitive advantage
• Ex. shift in corporate taxation, falling raw material 
prices, market trends, emerging technology
Economic Social Technological Environmental Legal
Govt actions –
elections,  fiscal 
policy, corporate 
taxation, etc.
Economy – inflation, 
interest rates, 
exchange rates, 
unemployment, etc.
Societal factors –
demographics, 
cultures, beliefs, 
lifestyle trends, etc.
Laws - Intellectual 
property,  industry 
regulations,  
licenses & permits, 
etc.
Govt regulations, 
carbon footprint, 
risks for raw 
materials etc.
Level of adoption, 
automation, tech 
infrastructure, R&D,  
latest trends, etc.
InternalExternal
Facilitative Prohibitive
2024-2025

===== PAGE 23 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Strategic Frameworks
Page 23
Porter’s 5 Forces
Bargaining 
Power of 
Customers
• Bargaining power increases (decreases) with:
1. High (low) number of buyers
2. Low (high) switching costs
3. Higher (lower) availability of substitutes
4. Lesser (higher) differentiation in products (standardized products)
5. High (low) price elasticity of goods
Bargaining 
Power of 
Suppliers
• Bargaining power of supplier increases (decreases) with:
1. Lower (higher) availability of substitutes
2. Low (high) number of suppliers in the market
3. High (low) number of customers available for suppliers i.e. low (high) 
switching cost for suppliers
Industry 
Rivalry
• Industry competition increases (decreases) with:
1. Increase (decrease) in number of competitors
2. Low (high) barriers to entry
3. Low (high) product differentiation
4. Low (high) focus on brand value in customer’s mind
Threat of 
New 
entrants
• Barriers to entry increase (decrease) with:
1. Differentiated (undifferentiated) products
2. Regulatory restrictions (absence thereof) on entry (such as Railways)
3. High (low) capital requirements
4. High (low) brand value for existing firms in the market
Threat of 
Substitutes
• Threat of Substitutes increases (decreases) with:
1. Low (high) switching costs for customers
2. Relatively high (low) performance of substitutes
Rivalry
Bargaining 
Power-
Suppliers
Bargaining 
Power-
Customers
Threat of 
New 
Entrants
Threat of 
Substitutes
Value Chain
Product Development: 
Research & 
Development
Sourcing of 
Materials Manufacturing
Warehousing & 
Transportation 
Logistics
Distribution Retail & 
Marketing
After-Sales 
Service and 
Support
Optimal and 
Economical Order 
Quantity of RM
Machine
Human Capital
Technology
Methodology
Storage Constraints
Transport Costs
Inventory Costs
Optimal Channels
Sales staff L&D
Incentives
Advertisements
Awareness
Human Capital
Repairs
Customer Service
Returns
SLAs
Research Capital
Financing
Human Capital
2024-2025

===== PAGE 24 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Strategic Frameworks
Page 24
BCG Matrix
The Company Environment
Question Marks
• Companies need to take a call
• Can be turned into stars with investments
• Can be discarded as dogs if no future potential is 
seen from company standpoint
Dogs
• Sustained cash flows
• They will never be stars
• Companies should liquidate or divest from such 
types of investments / entities
Stars
• Market-leading
• Large cash flows
• Companies can invest heavily to turn these into 
cash cows
Cash Cows
• Do not require further reinvestments
• Can be used to generate cash flow for the 
company
• Needs to be ‘milked’ properly to generate cash
To calculate TAM, use top-down 
approach (e.g. relevant population 
segments) to estimate total market 
size broadly
SAM = TAM * Market Penetration
SOM = SAM * Market Share Size of the entire 
market for the 
product/service
Potential market that can 
be targeted in the long-
term
Realistically achievable 
market in the short-
term
High 
Growth
Low 
Growth
High Market Share Low Market Share
Can be used to supplement the analyses of cost structures
Serviceable 
Operable 
Market 
(SOM)
Serviceable 
Addressable 
Market 
(SAM)
T otal 
Addressable 
Market (TAM)
2024-2025

===== PAGE 25 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Strategic Frameworks
Page 25
Ansoff Matrix (also called Product/Market Expansion Grid)
Market Development
• Does not require significant R&D or product 
development investment
• Firms can cater to a new demographic, enter a 
new domestic or foreign market
Diversification
• It is the riskiest proposition
• Requires both product and market development
• Diversification can be related (potential 
synergies) or unrelated (entirely new product)
Market Penetration
• Least risky relatively
• Firms can focus on increasing marketing efforts, 
decreasing prices to attract newer customers or 
acquiring a competitor in the same market
Product Development
• Requires investments in R&D to develop 
altogether new products
• Firms may also acquire rights to produce and sell 
another firm’s product(s)
Existing ProductNew Product
Existing Market New Market
2024-2025

===== PAGE 26 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Marketing Frameworks
Page 26
5C’s of Marketing 4P’s of Marketing
Company • Who are you? Understanding the company, 
products, channels, value chain, etc.
Customers • Who are you selling to? Understanding the 
customers, segments, their needs, wants, etc.
Competitors • Who is in your way? Understanding other players in 
the market, their strategies, etc.
Collaborators • Who are you working with? Understanding your 
external vendors, suppliers, partners, etc.
Context • What are current conditions? Understanding the 
business climate using SWOT & PESTEL
Product
• Product is the item catering to a need
• Involves product design, features, quality, range, 
branding, packaging, etc.
Place
• Place is the channel of delivery of product
• Involves distribution, franchising, inventory, 
transportation, logistics, etc.
Price
• Price is amount being paid for a product
• Involves pricing strategy, payment methods, 
discounts, allowances, etc.
Promotion
• Promotion covers the marketing communications 
being used for product
• Involves channel mix, messaging, etc.
4A’s of Marketing
Awareness
• Product Knowledge: Customers should have 
sufficient knowledge to trigger a purchase
• Brand Awareness: Customers’ ability to 
recognize, recall and remember the brand name
Affordability
• Economic Affordability: Customers should have 
sufficient economic resources at disposal to 
purchase.
• Psychological Affordability: Customers’ willingness 
to pay for a given product or service offered by 
the company
Accessibility
• Customer Availability: Company should have 
sufficient stock to cater to market demand
• Customer Convenience: Ease of access for a 
potential customer to the product or service
Acceptability
• Functional Acceptability: Objective in nature, 
based on product specification, performance, 
durability, etc.
• Psychological Acceptability: Subjective in nature, 
based on product aesthetics, brand appeal, etc.
2024-2025

===== PAGE 27 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Miscellaneous Frameworks
Page 27
VRIO 
Framework
STP of Marketing
V R I O
Valuable Rare Inimitable Organized
Yes Yes Yes Yes Sustained 
Competitive 
Advantage
Competitive 
Disadvantage
No
Competitive 
Parity
No
Short-term
Competitive 
Advantage
No
Underutilized
Competitive 
Advantage
No
Used to determine whether a resource or capability can provide a 
sustained competitive advantage for a company.
Used to gain more insights into Big Data and 
determine the value of collected data
AMO 
FrameworkUsed to assess employee productivity and effectiveness in a firm. 
Typical applications involve to assess effectiveness of a salesforce 
personnel.
Ability Motivation Opportunity
Hiring, Training, 
Learning, Skill 
Development,
Talent Management
Expectancy
Clarity of goals, 
Control over 
performance
Instrumentality
Incentive structure,
Performance 
metrics & evaluation
Career planning, fair 
appraisal process, 
recognitions, 
empowerment
4Vs of Data
Volume Scale or size of the data is
being generated
Velocity Speed at which the data is
being generated & processed
Variety Number of different forms or
categories of collected data
Veracity Accuracy and truthfulness of
the collected data
Used to gain more insights into Big Data and 
determine the value of collected data
Segmentation
Dividing market into distinct groups of customers 
based on their characteristics or behavior
Targeting
Selection of a customer group to focus marketing 
efforts based on segment attractiveness
Positioning
Designing the product and promotional mix to 
appeal to the target market segment
2024-2025

===== PAGE 28 =====

Preamble to 
Case Solving


===== PAGE 29 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Structured problem solving is about understanding a business situation, breaking it open into subproblems, and analyzing it from different
perspectives. Multiplicity of perspectives means that the same problem can be looked at in numerous different ways. As such, what aspect
one targets is very subjective with no right or wrong choice.
The idea behind the frameworks we talk about in this casebook is to give that initial search potential directions. Given a particular situation,
different people will choose different focus points and hence the structure they build will be different.
To illustrate the same, we first take up a simple problem statement and present two different approaches to the same. The idea is to
highlight that there is no hardbound solution to a given case. You will see that while the two interviewees start with a similar preliminary
analysis, the emphasis shifts onto different aspects of the problem statement and the analysis further builds accordingly.
Regardless of the structure chosen, the idea should be to be comprehensive in your analysis, and structurally break the problem, and you
will be able to cover the underlying problem despite starting at different points.
While all other cases in this casebook are solved in one particular way, there can be multiple different ways to reach the same answer. This
first case is just an illustrative example of how to crack the same problem through different approaches and the same principle can be
extended to all the other cases we present throughout this casebook.
Not a ‘one size fits all’ exercise!
Page 292024-2025

===== PAGE 30 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
A small canteen in the IIMA campus has witnessed a dip in its revenues. Help them recognize the
root cause and give them some recommendations to grow their revenues.
Understood. Firstly, what is the scale of the decline we are talking about and for how long have
they observed the problem?
The problem is fairly recent – last couple of months. We don’t know the exact numbers but it’s
substantial enough to raise concerns.
Alright. To gain a better understanding of the client, can you please tell me more about the
product, the customers, and the part of the value chain they operate in?
Sure, so the store has been running every day from 9am till late night 3am for over the last decade,
selling basic snacks with the 3 key products being omelets, sandwiches, and puffs. The store is run
by 6 employees divided equally in 2 shifts.
Is the decline seen particularly for any product or in any of the 2 shifts?
The trend is similar for all the products. But the 6pm-3am shift has witnessed the chunk of the
decline.
Okay. Also, if it is an on-campus canteen, the typical customers would be students, professors and
maybe the on-campus staff. Is that correct?
Yes, that’s correct. But majorly, the revenues come from students.
Got it, is the problem specific to this canteen? Or are the other food outlets in the campus facing a
similar issue?
No, the other outlets haven’t seen a change in their revenues.
Alright, I have all the information I need to start addressing the problem statement. I will start by
breaking down the revenue as a function of the following:
Revenues = # of orders * average order value
Do we know if either of the elements have been affected?
Primarily the # of orders have reduced, however, the AOV has seen a slight uptick.
Alright, I will first focus on the number of orders. The reduction in the volume can be driven either
due to a supply-side issue or a demand-side problem. Do we have an indication as to where the
problem lies?
Can you tell me more about both factors?
Sure. The supply side includes 3 main factors – procurement, preparation, and distribution. The
demand side considers the customers’ need, awareness, accessibility, affordability, and acceptability.
Okay, let’s start with demand and then go to supply.
Sure. On the demand side, we can note the following:
a) Need – the inherent needs of the students should not inherently change in the last couple
months.
b) Awareness – given the store has been in campus for several years, its awareness should not
be an issue.
c) Accessibility – this can be due to a store location dynamics, which are particularly unfavorable
for students visiting during the night shift.
d) Affordability – if we have increased the price recently, it might act as a detractor.
e) Acceptability – if the key products have inherently changed in quality or quantity, preference
for them might have taken a hit.
Alright, so you are correct in inferring that need and awareness haven’t changed. The products
have not changed either. Accessibility in fact has improved, given the store has started delivering
food to the dorms. The prices have just slightly increased for deliveries due to a small delivery fee
of ₹10.
So, the demand-related factors in fact seem to be moving positively. Moving on to the supply-side,
I want to first know more about our procurement mechanism and if it has changed in the recent
past.
We have been procuring basic raw material like eggs, bread, etc. from a nearby store in Vastrapur
for several years now. It hasn’t changed except for the usual price increases.
Got it. Has our production capacity decreased due to a change in the equipment or employee
factors?
No, we have the same equipment, and each shift has been run by 3 trained employees for a
couple years now.
Okay, you mentioned that the store has recently started delivering food. How do our deliveries
work?
So, one of the 3 employees usually walks to the dorms to deliver the food. Students like to order
sandwiches and puffs as late-night snacks while studying so almost all deliveries take place during
the night shift.
Ah okay, while our delivery orders might be increasing, the dine-in customers would certainly not
be liking that. Due to the 3rd employee doing deliveries, the actual capacity of our food
preparation would have decreased and must have increased waiting times.
That’s a fair understanding. What can the canteen do?
There are 3 things the store can do:
a) Increase capacity by adding equipment so that more orders can be processed
simultaneously
b) Hire one more employee for the night shift to maintain capacity
c) Increase the delivery fee to compensate for the dip in dine-in revenues
Campus Canteen (Approach 1) – Interview Transcript
Profitability | F&B | Easy
Page 302024-2025

===== PAGE 31 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
A small canteen in the IIMA campus has witnessed a dip in its revenues. Help them recognize the
root cause and give them some recommendations to grow their revenues.
Understood. Firstly, I would want to understand the product range that they offer. And what is
their regular service time? Is it a night canteen?
Sure. So, the store runs from 9AM till 3AM late night every day. They mostly sell basic snacks. Their
3 key products are omelets, sandwiches, and puffs.
What is their scale of operations? How many staff do they have?
They have a fairly small store but positioned well. They have 6 employees distributed across 2 shifts.
Okay. Also, if it is an on-campus canteen, the typical customers would be students, professors and
maybe the on-campus staff. Is that correct?
Yes, that’s correct. But majorly, the revenues come from students.
Got it. Is the problem specific to this canteen? Or are the other food outlets in the campus facing a
similar issue?
No, the other outlets haven’t seen a change in their revenues.
Alright. I think have enough information to start my analysis.
Firstly, breaking down revenues,
Revenues = # Customer * # Orders per customer * Revenue per order
Do we have an idea on which if these could be causing the decline or would you want me to analyze
both of them individually?
It is the number of orders going down that is hurting them. The AOV has actually gone up and the
number of customers has largely remained the same.
Okay. Since it is the number of orders going down while the competitors around remain unaffected,
I would want to switch to an individual customer’s journey and see where exactly the drop off may
be happening.
Sure. Go ahead.
I will break a customer’s journey into three parts:
1. Before coming to the store
2. During the visit to the store
3. After the visiting the store
Have we identified an issue in any particular segment of this? Or would you like me to dive into 
each of these individually?
They haven’t observed any particular change in how and why people approach the store. However,
the complaints while people are at the store are rising.
Okay. So, once at the store, the customers are facing some issues. I would like to break this down
further into factors that affect a customer’s decision once they are at the store.
Sounds good. Go ahead.
I would break the decision into:
1. Product-related factors – quality, quantity, raw materials used, price
2. Service-related factors – wait time, seating availability, ambience
Do we understand where the problem might lie?
The product and everything that goes into it is largely the same. The complaints are mostly on the
service aspect.
Okay. As I briefly mentioned, issues with the service could be about:
1. Increased rush limiting access to the products
2. Longer wait time post ordering
3. Insufficient or improper seating space
4. External issues like bad surrounding odor
While other things have remained mostly the same, people are complaining about experiencing
longer wait times.
Because this is a service store the longer wait time would essentially be a supply side problem.
Longer wait times may mean,
1. There are not enough workers
2. They do not have enough resources to work with
3. There has been a change in the workers and hence the lower efficiency
4. The general worker efficiency has gone down
The workers and the resources they use has remained the same. However, because of the newly
started room delivery service, a worker is typically on the go delivering orders. That has reduced the
available workforce in the store and hence the longer waiting times.
Campus Canteen (Approach 2) – Interview Transcript
Page 31
Profitability | F&B | Easy
2024-2025

===== PAGE 32 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
A small canteen in the IIMA campus has witnessed a dip in its revenues. Help them recognize the root cause and give them some
recommendations to grow their revenues.
Approach/ FrameworkCase Facts
• The decrease in revenue is a 
recent problem ~ last 2 
months
• The canteen runs from 9am-
3am by 6 employees divided 
equally over 2 shifts
• 3 key products sold at the 
canteen are omelets, 
sandwiches, and puffs
• The chunk of the decline has 
been seen in the 6pm-3am 
shift
• Though the canteen caters to 
students, professors, and 
staff, majority of the revenue 
comes from students
• No other food outlet on-
campus is seeing declining 
revenues
Page 32
Canteen Revenue
# of Orders Average Order 
Value
Approach 1
Recommendations
• Add equipment to increase capacity to process multiple orders simultaneously
• Hire additional employee for night shifts to not face a shortfall of staff when deliveries happen
• Increase the delivery fee to compensate for the decrease of in-store revenue
Observations
• Approach 2 uses Customer Journey to exactly pinpoint the issue, which is more unequivocal than Approach 1
• Approach 1 identifies that one of the employees is also doing the delivery, which leads to higher wait times much faster by p inpointing issue in supply side
Campus Canteen
Supply Demand
Procurement
Preparation
Distribution
X
Canteen Revenue
# of Customers # of Orders per 
Customer
Revenue per 
Order
Customer 
Journey
Before 
Arrival
During 
Visit
After 
Visit
Approach 2
Product
Seating availability
Ambience
Wait Time
DeliveryDine-in
Increased wait time
2024-2025
Profitability | F&B | Easy
Service

===== PAGE 33 =====

Profitability 
cases


===== PAGE 34 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a beer manufacturing company that operates in India. The cost structure for the
company is poor as compared to the international benchmarks, and you have been asked by the
client to find out why.
Is the problem only on the cost side, or should I also analyze the revenues of the company to look
for a problem there?
No, the problem is only on the cost side.
Alright. Is the problem with only one specific beer product, or is the problem spread out across
different products? Additionally, is this an industry wide problem, or specific to our client?
The problem is not limited to one product. In fact, the client is facing the problem across many
beer products. Our key competitors, most of which are international players, haven’t really been
facing this issue.
Okay. I think it would make sense to break the costs down into the value chain to see where the
cost issue lies. Should I go ahead with the same?
Sure, you can do that.
I would start by breaking this into the value chain. The components that I would like to analyze are
as follows: R&D, Raw Material Procurement, Processing, Storage & Transportation, Distribution
and finally Marketing. Does this sound okay or should I look into something more as well?
The value chain seems fine.
Next, I would like to understand which component contributes to the maximum deviation in costs
so that I can analyze accordingly.
Good question! The processing costs seem to be the issue.
Okay, in that case, I would like to delve deeper into processing costs. However, before I proceed
with the same, I would like to see if this is the only cost head that has an issue.
You may proceed with processing costs. There are no other cost heads where the client is facing a
problem.
Okay, The possible sub-heads to analyze processing costs would be rent, electricity expense,
machinery, technology, labour hours and wages, capacity utilization, packaging, efficiency (defects).
Should I analyze all these heads or is there a particular head with an issue?
Yes. The client is indeed facing a problem in the utilization of capacity.
So, capacity utilization can be broken down as: Actual Output/Potential Output. Is the utilization
with the current capacity 100%?
Yes, current capacity utilization is 100%.
This means we should look into potential capacity. How many plants and machines is the client
currently operating?
As of now, the client has 3 plants with 3 machines each. Total capacity of each plant is 30,000
bottles.
How is this figure when compared with the competitors of the client?
Competitors are manufacturing 50,000-80,000 bottles per plant.
Beer Manufacturer – Interview Transcript
Profitability | Cost reduction | Distillers | Easy
Page 34
This difference might be due to more plants, more machines/plant or better efficiency of the
machines being used.
Rightly pointed out. The difference is due to better efficiency of the machines which are primarily
imported from China.
Okay. Then client might not have been able to install better machinery due to reasons either
internal or external to the client.
Under internal reasons, we will majorly look at the two broad reasons:
1. Monetary – gross initial cost of machinery, availability and attractiveness of financing, and total
cost of operations.
2. Non-monetary – accessibility to the seller(s), logistical issue in procuring the machinery, lack of
skilled labour force. Which of these applies to the client?
The cost of the new machines is 1.5 times the normal machine, which is not a challenge for the
client to invest and there is no special training needed for the labour force to operate the machine.
There is no accessibility problem as well. Let’s explore the external reasons.
Alright, under the external reasons, I will look at the following factors:
1. Economic – interest rates or exchange rates are not favorable to this transaction
2. Environmental – the alternative machine might not comply with the environmental standards
3. Political – unstable relations between the 2 countries might pose as a hindrance
4. Legal – importing such machines might require special licenses/permits or machine standards
might not be in line with the law of the land
5. Social – Indian consumers have been pushing for fully made in India products which might put
additional constraints on Indian companies
6. Technological – tools and other components which are available in the market might not be
suitable for the alternate machinery
Great – the Indian government has put restrictions on import of several Chinese products and
technology, and this machine is under that list. Thus, we have not been able to move up from the
lower capacity machine. What would be your recommendations?
Has the client looked for similar machinery? Or have they consulted the authorities regarding this
issue?
No, we have been made aware of the new machinery quite recently.
Alright, in that case, I will recommend 3 measures:
1. Short-term: look for similar vendors – The client can look at other countries where similar
machines with a higher capacity are available. Since investment ability is not an issue for our
client, then even if we pay a bit extra, we can cover that through scaling production.
2. Medium-term: lobby with the authorities – Several import restrictions have been withdrawn if
they have harmed the interests of domestic businesses. The client can approach the
government for lobbying in this matter.
3. Long-term: Design and develop machine internally – In the long run, the client can design and
develop its own technology to expand production based on its own needs. Alternatively, the
client can also acquire design licenses and then develop the machine in India.
That’s great. We can close the case here.
2024-2025

===== PAGE 35 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a beer manufacturing company that operates in India. The cost structure for the company is poor compared to the 
international benchmarks, and you have been asked by the client to find out why.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Qualitative case, no 
numbers provided
• A single cost head 
case where one 
issue needs to be 
identified
• The cost problem is 
identified to be in 
processing
• Either the client 
cannot invest capital 
or there are 
logistical issue in 
relation to getting 
advanced machines
Case Facts
• Client is a beer 
manufacturing 
company with multiple 
products
• It is facing cost issues 
with more than one 
beer product
• Thus, is not an industry 
wide problem
• Client has 3 plants with 
30000 bottles capacity 
working at 100% 
utilization
• Advanced machines 
cost 1.5 times the 
normal ones and 
produce twice as much
Beer Manufacturer
Recommendations
• Candidate should give a combination of short term and long-term recommendations.
• In the short term, the client can look for similar vendors in other countries.
• In the medium term, the client can lobby the government to relax restrictions.
• In the longer run, the client should aim to design and develop their own technology or acquire intellectual property from lic ensors.
Observations / Suggestions
• This is a cost reduction case where the interviewee should quickly establish the major cost buckets after discussing with the interviewer. The candidate can either probe each bucket along 
the value chain, or ask the interview which buckets to look into.
• Each cost component should be broken down into multiple cost levers to ensure that nothing is being missed out.
• When analysing a specific cost bucket, look into its components in decreasing order of their magnitude.
Page 35
Profitability | Cost reduction | Distillers | Easy
R&D Raw Material Processing Storage & 
Transportation
Distribution-
Salesforce Marketing
Costs
Rent Electricity Machinery Labour hours 
and Wages Technology Packaging DefectsCapacity 
utilisation
Actual 
Capacity
Potential 
Capacity
Machines/
PlantPlants Machine 
Efficiency
ExternalInternal 
Non-
Monetary EconomicMonetary PoliticalLegal SocialEnvironment Technological
2024-2025
Click here for 
Panorama Report!

===== PAGE 36 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Lease Fee – Interview Transcript
Profitability | Cost reduction | Aviation | Moderate
Your client is a private company in the United states that leases a jet. The lease contract is soon
expiring, and the company wants to renew the contract. The client now contacted you and asked
you to find ways to reduce the lease amount. The current amount is $1 million, how can the
company lower it?
That is an interesting case. As I understand, client needs to find ways to reduce current amount of
leasing the jet. Do I need to look into other options of buying the jet or booking of private jet
during the time of use? Or should I just focus on lease contract.
So, client needs to lease the jet as per his requirement. You should look into how to lower the
cost of leasing.
I would like to know whether the jet should be exactly the same as the jet leased under the past
lease contract? Also, what is the duration of the lease contract?
Excellent question. The jet leased under the new contract does not necessarily have to be the
same. The current contract was for 1 year.
I would like to look at 2 factors affecting the leasing cost. First would be our client’s requirement
for the jet and second would be the lessor and its leasing contract.
Ok. Go ahead.
I would like to deep dive into requirements of our client. I would like to analyse the seating
capacity required by the client as well as the # of times jet is used. What is the general occupancy
of the plane over the last few years and what is the seating capacity of the leased plane?
The seating capacity of the plane is 40 and the occupancy has ranged between 8 to 10.
Great, so one way the firm could reduce its cost is by leasing a plane with a lower seating capacity.
Considering that the occupancy rate was around 10, I believe that a plane with 15 seats should be
sufficient. Assuming that the occupancy rate follows a normal distribution, it is very unlikely that
there will be more than 15 people in the plane at the same time. However, if this is the case it is
always possible for the plane to fly multiple trips.
I agree, that is a great suggestion.
Now I would like to analyze the usage of jet. I would like to know how often the leased plane is
used per year?
The company uses the plane 3-4 times per year.
Ok, as we know that company uses jet only 3-4 times a year, do we know which months
specifically the company uses the jet? I am coming from the point that if we know the specific
months, we can lease the jet for those months only
Fair suggestion, but generally industry has minimum of 1 year of leasing contracts and client doesn’t
have fixed months when jet is required.
Ok, another suggestion because of low usage can be that the client can look into the possibility of
co-leasing the jet with another company to make up for the months with low usage rates.
Sounds good. What can the possible problems with this suggestion?
There might be conflicts if both companies need to lease the jet at the same time. Well-defined
rules need to be laid out to clear out conflicts in such a case.
Good point.
Now I would like to analyze the lessor and the contract. I would like to look into different lessors
available to our client and how the length of leasing contract will affect the cost. What is the current
relationship with the lessor and are there other lessor who have better pricing with similar
services?
Client has been leasing the jet from the same lessor for past 7 years and trust him with quality. He
doesn’t want to look for other lessors.
Ok. So, as the current leasing contract is just for 1 year, the company could hence opt for a
contract with a longer period. This should provide the firm with a discount.
Good suggestion. As you can see in the graph the leasing price per year in the initial contract is 1
million per year. The total price for a contract with a duration of 5 years is 4.2 million. What would
be the cost savings for the firm if they switch to a contract with a longer leasing period?
The cost savings would be $160000.
What are some of the problems you can see with opting for a longer contract period?
The lease fee may increase as the contract period increases. In the rare event that the client
decides to change the lessor or finds themself not in the requirement to use the jet, then the lease
fee would be a sunk cost. A longer contract period also gives a sense of safety to the lessor and
might make them lax with maintenance and upkeep.
Good points! Can you suggest additional ways to increase occupancy?
In the periods when the jet is not being used, alternative uses for the same can be explored - sub-
leasing the same, using the jet as a restaurant to monetise it.
Good suggestions! We can close the discussion here.
Page 362024-2025

===== PAGE 37 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a private company in the United states that leases a jet. The lease contract is soon expiring, and the company
wants to renew the contract. The client now contacted you and asked you to find ways to reduce the lease amount. 
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes Case Facts
• The current lease fee is 1 million 
Dollar
• The contract duration is 1 year 
• Seating capacity of the plane is 
40
• The occupancy has ranged 
around 8-10
• The company uses the leased jet 
3-4 times per month
• The contract has been renewed 
for the last 7 years
Lower Leasing fee• The jet need not be the exact 
same as leased under the 
present contract
• Assume occupancy follows a 
normal distribution and will 
rarely exceed 15 passengers
• Look into the requirement of 
the jet
• Duration of lease agreement 
can be modified to reduce 
costs
Client Requirements Lessor and Leasing 
Contract
Type of Contract Short (1year) Long (5 years)
Total Cost 1 million 4.2 million
Cost per year 1 million 0.84 million
Cost Savings per year 160000
Seating 
Requirement Frequency of Use New Lessor with 
Lower Rate
Increasing Contract 
Duration
Recommendations
• Lease plane with lower seating capacity: Since the plane hardly ever is used at max capacity, a smaller plane can be leased
• Share the lease contract with another party: Stringent contracts need to be established regarding usage
• Increase contract duration: A longer contract duration should result in discounts
Observations / Suggestions
• Conduct a feasibility analysis of the options recommended, wherever possible
• If a feasibility analysis is not possible, mention the caveats associated with your recommendations
• Structure the recommendation and do not give a laundry list of suggestions
Lease Fee
Page 37
Profitability | Cost reduction | Aviation | Moderate
2024-2025
Click here for 
Panorama Report!

===== PAGE 38 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client (IA) is an auto insurance company operating in India and has been facing reducing
profitability in the last 2 years. They have come to you for help to identify the reasons and explore
possible solutions. You can ignore reinsurance for the purpose of the analysis.
Can you tell me a little bit more about the competitive landscape and the position of IA? Also how
fast is the industry growing?
Sure. IA is one of the 5-6 major players who dominate the industry and hold around 95% of the
market. The market has been growing steadily at around 10% p.a.
Okay. And how is the company growing? Is it in line with the industry?
The market is growing at around 10% p.a, and the company's market share is growing in almost the
same proportion.
Alright, is this reduction in profitability only being faced by the company or by competitors as well?
We do not have very accurate data of competitors; however, reliable estimates indicate that most
of them have maintained profitability levels, and some have even increased profitability. What do
you think are the possible causes for this?
It can either be due to higher revenues, or due to lower costs.
The industry is fairly competitive, and none of the players can get away with charging higher prices
without losing out on market share. And as for number of customers, there has not been any
major change as such. So you can move on from revenue.
Okay. Then I will move on to the costs side. I would like to map out the cost heads based on the
value chain of our client: product/policy development, sales and marketing, underwriting, customer
servicing, investment management, claims handling. Am I missing any major cost component?
No, this sounds fair.
Which cost head is majorly responsible for the increase in costs?
Cost on claims settlement has been growing faster than revenue growth.
Okay, then I would like to understand the possible causes of the rising costs. I would like to break
Claims Settlement cost into Probability of Claiming and Average Claim Cost. Do we have
information on which of these costs is rising?
Average claim amount has not changed. You can analyze probability of claiming.
Alright! Probability of claiming is a function of how stringent is a company’s policy and customer
distribution. Since competitors are not experiencing this increase in costs, is it possible due to too
stringent policies being implemented by them?
I do not think that is the case. This would result in unnecessary loss of goodwill for the company.
Further, the industry is highly regulated, and all players have similar policy terms and claim
processes. Hence, this is not practical.
Okay, in that case, is it fair to say that the client is facing higher costs due to a different customer
portfolio?
Yes. How will you further analyze the customer portfolios?
We can segment customers into buckets based on
a. Age group
b. Income bracket
c. Geography and terrain
d. Traffic in the area.
That would give us an idea of the risk, based on the general profile of the customers. So, do we
have any data regarding this?
Yes, so although there is a fair mix in all the buckets, the portfolio is generally dominated by people
of relatively younger age groups (less than 25 years). In terms of income, IA has a large base of
lower and middle level income groups. It has its operations in all major cities –Delhi, Bangalore,
Mumbai, etc.
That explains a lot. You mentioned that the company has a greater number of customers who are
young. They can be considered riskier, as they tend to be rasher while driving, increasing risk of
accidents, when compared with middle aged people having families. Further, you mentioned that
they do not have too many customers in the higher income brackets. Higher income groups can be
considered less risky as they use expensive cars, usually have professional chauffeurs who are
generally more careful. Also, it has a lot of clients in cities with extremely high and aggressive traffic
like Delhi, which have higher incidents of accidents
Thus, the company should either focus on improving the portfolio mix or should adjust premiums
more appropriately to factor in the risks.
That sounds good to me. Thank you.
Auto Insurance – Interview Transcript
Profitability | Cost reduction | BFSI  | Moderate
Page 382024-2025

===== PAGE 39 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
To increase profitability of an auto insurance provider
Interviewee Notes
• Profitability changes can be 
due to both revenue and 
costs
• Since revenues have been 
growing in line with 
industry, declining 
profitability must be due to 
rising costs
• Problem is also specific to 
the client (not an industry-
issue)
• Analyse value chain of the 
client
• Claim cost has increased at 
a faster rate than revenue
• Understand the customer 
segment behind the rising 
claim costs
Case Facts
• Client is a top 6 player in a 
concentrated auto 
insurance industry in India 
• Client has experienced 
falling profitability, but 
competitors haven’t
• Revenues have been 
growing in line with 
industry
• Industry is competitive 
with little scope to charge 
higher than competitors
Auto Insurance
Profitability | Cost reduction | BFSI  | Moderate
Recommendations
• The problem arises due to high claim costs. High claim costs arise due to an unfavourable customer profile mix.
• Thus, the company should either focus on improving the portfolio mix or should adjust premiums more appropriately to factor i n the risks. 
Observations / Suggestions
• Have a clear approach. In this interview, the candidate took many questions before being able to pin down claim costs as the root cause. Nonetheless, it is clear that the candidate had a 
very clear framework in mind (Profitability > Revenues/Costs > Industry-Wide/Firm-Wide Issue > Value Chain > Claim Costs).
• Furthermore, the candidate also asked if there were cost components he was missing. This shows that the candidate tried to ha ve a MECE approach, which is what interviewers are looking 
for.
• It is important to have an understanding of the nuances of the insurance industry to come up with the cost structure.
Page 39
Approach/ Framework
Profits
Probability of 
Claim
Average Claim 
Amount
Customer 
Portfolios
Policy 
Stringency
Investment 
Management
Sales and 
Marketing Underwriting Customer 
Servicing
Claims 
Settlement
Policy 
Development
Revenue Cost
2024-2025
Click here for 
Panorama Report!

===== PAGE 40 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a South African education provider. Their revenues have been declining and they are
trying to figure out the reason and define a plan of action for revival.
Alright. Can you tell me what exactly an education provider is? Are they a school?
The client operates post grade 12 level. They provide undergraduate and post-graduate courses.
Some courses are completely offline, some are online, and some are hybrid.
Okay. Can you tell me how long this issue has persisted and what is the quantum of decline in
profits? Additionally, can you please tell me where exactly in South Africa do we operate?
The issue has been going on for about 1.5 years now. The decline is significant but let's not get into
any numbers. You can consider that we operate in the urban provinces of South Africa.
Alright. What is our primary target segment in terms of students?
We primarily cater to working adults between the age of 20-45 who wish to get formal
certifications to improve career prospects.
Interesting. That is good to know. Further, can I know a little bit about the competitive
environment? Are the competitors also facing the same issue as us?
There are about 6 major players including us. All other players are witnessing healthy growth.
Previously we were 2nd in terms of market share but have now dropped to 3rd over the past 1.5
years.
Okay. So, it seems to be a grave problem. The decline in our profits can be a cost issue or a
revenue problem. Can I know where I should focus?
Please focus only on revenues. What do you think are the revenue streams of such a player?
I can think of 3 major revenue streams. One being enrollments, the second being the money we
earn from research and publications and the third being donations to us by third parties. Does this
seem comprehensive? Is there any one you want me to focus on?
Yes, this seems good. Please focus on enrolments.
Okay. To dive a little deeper. Is this decline in enrollments focused on any specific geography or
course? Also, can I know what domains do we cover?
The Durban province has suffered more than the rest and the most impact has been on
undergraduate courses. Most of our courses are in the business and management domain, almost
80% in fact.
Okay. I think I have enough information to proceed. I shall focus my analysis on undergraduate
courses. The revenue from enrollments can be dependent on the number of students enrolled, the
portfolio of courses we offer and the fee per course. Have any of these changed?
The number of students enrolled has dropped.
Alright. The number of enrolled students could have reduced at 3 junctions. Pre enrollment which
depends mainly on our brand value, the variety of courses we offer and accessibility of our
program to everyone. The 2nd junction is drop-offs during enrollment which depends on the
pricing and the process. Finally, is the post enrollment which can be any early drop-outs from the
course.
The major issue we see is during enrollment. Can you elaborate more on the process aspect
within during enrollment?
Okay. I think the process would include 2 major factors – the eligibility criteria and the time &
effort when it comes to the active administrative process.
Education Provider – Interview Transcript
Profitability | Revenue decline | Education | Moderate | LEK Consulting
Page 40
We have had to reject many applicants as they do not have a higher degree pass which is required
for many undergraduate courses.
Okay. That is a big problem. Why does our competition not face this?
All other competitors also offer higher certification passes as part of their curriculum which we
don’t. This is mainly needed for undergraduate courses.
Okay. I think I have identified one of our major issues. Now I want to understand why the Durban
province is suffering. Can you tell me how this province is different from others?
Many manufacturing firms have now set up operations in Durban.
Is it fair to say that our course offerings that are focused on business and management don’t cater
very well to getting a job within the Durban market where technical skills are necessary?
Correct. Many of our competitors offer technical courses and are doing vey well in that region. I
think you have identified most of the problems. I had one additional question; we feel that our
marketing efforts are not as effective as they were before. Can you help me identify why?
Effective marketing requires 3 factors – The right channel, the right message and the right
spokesperson. All these must be aligned with our target customer. Can you tell me a little bit about
our current marketing strategy?
We predominantly advertise through newspaper and TV ads. We feel that our messaging is fine as
it is so, please ignore that for now.
Okay. I feel that given the changing times, LinkedIn, Twitter and other social media must be tapped
into for advertising. Further, we can partner with workplaces as a training partner to upskill their
employees. High value moves like sponsorship or celebrity endorsement can also be evaluated to
generate massive publicity
That seems like a good idea. Can you please highlight the broad plan of action to revive the firm?
Sure. Can I take a minute to structure the action plan?
Please take your time.
Alright. In the near term, as a priority, the firm must look to offering a higher certification pass to
solve the present eligibility issues. In the longer run, we should do a cost benefit analysis to evaluate
its basket of courses and analyze if any additional domains can be added. Finally, we must
continuously invest in marketing with specific focus laid on our new initiatives. Appropriate channels
must be chosen to implement this marketing plan.
Thank you. That was all!
2024-2025

===== PAGE 41 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Case Facts
• South African education 
provider
• Target segment is adults 
between 20-45
• Present in urban provinces
• Majorly business-related 
courses
• 6 major players in market, 
we are 3rd in market share
Interviewee Notes
• 3 revenue streams –
Enrolment, research, 
Donations
• Ignore costs
• Issue with enrolments in 
undergraduate
• Larger issue in Durban 
province
Page 41
Recommendations:
• Near term: Include provision of higher certification pass in curriculum
• Continuous: Invest in marketing through right channels
• Long term: Innovate basket of offerings
Key Learnings:
• These are 3 key revenue streams for an education provider
• Eligibility criteria and regulations can play a big role in education sector
Your client is a South African education provider. Their revenues have been declining and they are trying to figure out the reason and define a
plan of action for revival
Profits
Education Provider 
Revenue Costs
Donation Research Enrolment
FeeVarietyNumber
PostDuringPre
EligibilityProcess
Profitability | Revenue decline | Education | Moderate | LEK Consulting
Approach/ Framework
2024-2025
Click here for 
Panorama Report!

===== PAGE 42 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Oil Distributor – Interview Transcript
Your client is an oil distributor. It owns 4 petrol pumps. Its profits have been constant for the past
few years in one of the petrol pumps. Diagnose and recommend solutions.
I would like to begin with a few clarifying questions on our client. As per my understanding our
client owns these petrol pumps, and the problem is specific to one of them. Is that correct?
That is correct.
Is the client a national distributor or a regional distributor? Also is the problem being faced by
other petrol pumps in that region?
Being national or regional distributor is not relevant here. The problem is specific to the client’s
petrol pump.
Since the petrol pump is facing profitability problem, I’ll like to study the profit structure of the
petrol pump and break it down into revenues and costs which are the two components of profit
Fair. You can assume that costs are not of concern right now and start by analysing the revenues.
In that case, I’ll like to list break down the revenue sources between fuel sources and non-fuel
sources. Among the fuel sources, do well sell only petrol or have other products as well?
Only petrol is sold currently.
Among the nonfuel sources, the possible revenue streams would be convenience store, value
added services (paid air filling station, garage). Are there any other revenue stream I should be
looking at?
No, you can go ahead.
I’ll like to start by analysing the revenue from fuel sources first. I’ll break it down into no of
customers visiting per day, ticket size per customer, the price of petrol, and the distributor
margins our client earns. Do we have any data of these based on current operations.
Currently the average no of customers per day is 100, ticket size per customer is 1 lt. and the
price of petrol is Rs100/lt. Distributor margins are 10%.
Alright. So, to increase the profits, we need to look at increasing any one of them at least. How do
these numbers look for our competitors?
You can assume that the prices are competitive, distributor margins are consistent across all
players, and ticket size is also almost similar. The number of customers depends on a combination
of multiple factors.
Okay. So, the number of customers will depend on three major factors: location, price and service.
How are we in terms of location and service as compared to our competitors?
We are located in metro city like Mumbai and location is not an issue. Our services are also top-
notch.
Ok. So, we need to look at the possibility of either increasing the prices or decreasing them and
see their effect on the number of customers vising the petrol pump. Do we have any projection
regarding the same?
Based on the market research, we have found that on every 10% increase in price, the number of
customers decrease by 20% and for every 10% decrease in price, the number of customers increase
by 5%.
This implies changing price will lead to overall reduction in revenues. Can we look at other ways of
increasing the number of customers, like advertising?
Petrol is a commoditized product and advertising won’t be helpful.
Okay. Then we don’t see any way of increasing the revenues from fuel sources in isolation. Can we
look at non-fuel sources and see if that is related to the number of customers visiting the petrol
pump.
That’s correct. 30% of people visiting petrol pump end up visiting the convenience store as well.
The other non-fuel revenue sources can be neglected for this analysis.
So, this means we can look at the possibility of increasing the number of customers and see the net
effect on revenue based on decreased prices and increased revenue from convenience store. Do
we have any numbers related to revenue per person from the convenience store?
Yes. Currently the revenue per person from convenience store is Rs100. Your analysis is correct.
Assume that the prices are decreased by x% and the revenue per person from the convenience
store changes to y. Can you get the condition that must be satisfied for increasing net profit.
(Writes the equation) This means that decreasing the prices is not the sole criteria. We also need to
look at ways of increasing the revenue per person or the percentage of people visiting the store.
What are the products being sold at convenience store?
We currently sell general consumption items like chips, biscuits and other FMCG products. We
don’t have a big range of products. Can you give recommendations on ways to increase the revenue
from conveniences store.
1. We can stock more items both in terms of variety and volume so that any customer visiting
usually gets the product of his/her choice.
2. We can stock more items related to vehicles.
3. We can look at the possibility of advertising the store.
4. We can also explore the option of introducing a new process where the payment for petrol
will be done the store counter. This will essentially lead to all customers visiting the store and
many people may turn up finally buying something. (Trade off needs to be done based on
inconvenience caused for people who don’t want to go to the store)
This is fine. Thank you.
Profitability | Revenue decline | Oil and Gas | Moderate
Page 422024-2025

===== PAGE 43 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
You have been approached by an oil distributor facing with profitability problem in one of the 4 petrol pumps owned by them. Diagnose the 
problem and recommend appropriate solutions. 
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Profits have been constant 
over past few years due to 
problem in revenue 
generation.
• Identify the additional 
revenue sources for petrol 
pump- VAS, convenience 
store.
• Understand the 
interdependence of revenue 
sources on each other.
• Number of customers 
depend on location, price 
and service 
• Changing price will lead to 
overall reduction in 
revenues.
Case Facts
• Client owes 4 petrol pumps, 
and the problem is in only 
one of the pumps.
• Problem specific to the 
client.
• Only petrol is sold currently.
• No problem on the cost side.
• No new competition.
• Petrol pump facing issue 
situated in metro city, no 
issue with the location nor 
with service quality.
• Advertising will not 
be helpful as product is 
commoditized.
Price of Petrol No of 
Customers
% of Customers 
visiting 
Convenience 
Store
Revenue per 
Customer from 
Convenience
Store
Original Price (Rs 
100) 100 30 100
Price Increased by x%
Customers 
decreased by 
2x%
30 z
Price Decreased by 
x%
Customers 
increased by 
(x/2)%
30 y
Oil Distributor
Recommendations
• Reduce price of petrol to get more customers.
• Increase the convenience store revenue: increase stock in terms of volume and variety; stock more 
vehicle related items; advertising the store; alternate payment process to increase visits to store.
Observations / Suggestions
• It is essential to figure out the key revenue streams for the petrol pump and their interdependence.
• Calculate the net effect of reduction in prices on profit and the possible ways of increasing revenue 
from convenience store.
• Develop equation between x and y and find the desired relationship for ensuring overall profits.
• Can consider asking questions around nature of the dealership – COCO, CODO, DOCO or DODO.
Page 43
Profitability | Revenue decline | Oil and Gas | Moderate
Revenue Cost
Non-Fuel 
Revenue
Convenience 
StoreCustomersDistributor 
Margin Ticket SizePrice
Fuel 
Revenue
Value Added 
Services
Place PriceProduct Promotion
Profits
2024-2025
Click here for 
Panorama Report!

===== PAGE 44 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Diagnostic Center – Interview Transcript
Profitability | Revenue Decline | Healthcare | Easy
Your client is a diagnostic chain in Mumbai. They have seen a decrease in profitability and want you 
to analyze the reasons.
To help me understand the problem better, please let me know if we have data about the 
magnitude of the decrease in profitability? Since when?
It is a recent phenomenon seen in the last 5 months. We do not have data about the exact drop 
in profitability.
Next, I would like to better understand our client. Could you elaborate on the various services 
provided by them? As far as my understanding goes, diagnostic chains can offer a host of services 
like blood tests, x-rays, USG, CT-scan, etc.
Correct. Diagnostic tests can be primarily divided into 2 categories: Pathological tests comprise 
blood, urine, stool tests. Radiological tests comprise X-rays, USG, CT-Scan, MRI. Specialty tests 
comprise ECG, EEG, Endoscopy, COVID-19, etc.
Okay! Does our client provide all the three types of services?
No, we provide pathological and radiological services.
That’s helpful! Given you mentioned they operate a chain, how many centers do they have in 
Mumbai?
There are 4 centers, one each in the South, West, East, and North areas.
Is the decrease in profitability faced by all centers? Are some particular centers more likely to face 
this decrease?
Good question, The south center in Colaba, which is our oldest center and contributes 45% of our 
business is the only center facing this issue.
Okay! Next, I would like to understand the value chain of our client’s operations. Does each 
center operate independently or are there some centralized operations (for example - centralized 
laboratories and finance functions).
We have a central laboratory, where samples from each center are sent for testing and reporting. 
The radiological services are carried out by each center independently.
Thank you, I have all the preliminary information I need. To begin with, I want to analyze profits as 
a function of revenue and costs. Do we have data about how these have been affected?
Revenues have declined. However, costs have remained the same.
The two streams of revenue will be pathological and radiological services. Another possible 
source can be the use of center infrastructure for purposes other than diagnostics. Do we have 
data about the revenue split, and if a particular stream is affected?
Revenues from the pathological tests have taken a hit.
Given the specified time period, I would like to break revenues from pathological tests for a center 
as No. of patient footfalls * No. of tests/patient * Average price/test. Is this a fair breakdown? Do 
we have data about these parameters?
There has been a decrease in the no. of patient footfalls.
I would like to examine this from the demand and supply perspective. As only one center is 
affected, and the operations of pathological tests are centralized across centers, I believe that this 
should be a demand-side issue.
Good, that’s a fair point. Yes, the demand has reduced.
To analyze further, I would like to understand the various channels through which patients are able 
to use the pathological services.
The patients either visit us at our center or choose the at-home test service, to get the pathological 
tests done.
Okay, and are we facing reduced demand and revenue from both these channels?
No, the reduction in demand has been in the in-center visits.
Next, I would like to analyze the various sources of demand for in-center visits. These would be 
direct referrals from health centers like nursing homes, clinics in the vicinity, self-prescribed (ones 
who visit on their own - like for regular tests), and through any third-party platforms (online or 
offline)
That is fair. The no. of patient footfalls through direct referrals has reduced.
I would like to know, are there any specific health centers from where we use to receive the 
highest proportion of direct referrals?
Yes, there are 3 specialty nursing homes in the vicinity, from where we get more than 80% of such 
patients. There has been a reduction from all these 3 nursing homes.
Okay, I think the reasons for the same can be nursing home/doctor-related or patient-related. The 
doctor-related reasons could be a decrease in patient flow at the hospital, preferring some other 
diagnostic center for referrals or starting their own pathological services. The patient-related 
factors could be preferring a competitor service due to better price, service quality, or 
convenience.
Fair enough, so the doctors at these nursing homes have started teleconsultation services on a 
third-party online platform. The patients prefer to use these services whenever feasible. This has 
led to a reduction in the physical footfall at the nursing homes. Also, we do not provide services 
through this platform. What would be your recommendation?
My recommendations will be to try and get listed on this platform and look to acquire these 
patients through our at-home test service. We should also look at getting listed on more such 
online healthcare platforms to diversify the sources of our demand. We can also look at launching 
our own website and app for booking tests (if not already done), As we have a centralized lab, if not 
utilized at full capacity, we should also look at providing testing and reporting services to other 
diagnostics.
Good, Thank you.
2024-2025 Page 44

===== PAGE 45 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Recommendations:
1) Partner with more and more third-party platforms.
2) Launch own website/app for booking.
3) Provide centralized lab services of testing and reporting to other diagnostic centers.
Key learnings:
1) Continuously sharing your hypothesis along with questions can lead to much quicker analysis of the case.
2) Using the 3C-1P framework for preliminary questions could have enabled an understanding of online competitors early on.
Your client is a diagnostic chain in Mumbai. They have seen a decrease in profitability and want you to analyze the reasons.
Approach/ Framework
Revenues
Radiology Pathology
Demand Supply
Diagnostic Center
Page 45
Number of 
Patients
Average
Price/Test
Number of 
Tests/Patient
In-Center 
Visits
At-Home 
Service
Direct Referrals Self 
Prescription
Third Party 
Platforms
Doctor
External
Internal
Patient Indirect 
Competition
Direct 
Competition
Interviewee Notes
• Important to start by 
understanding the various 
functions of the centers 
before diving deeper into 
the value chain.
• Zeroing in on geography 
and center is useful 
towards identifying the 
problem given Colaba-
specific nature of the 
issue and the large 
revenue share of that 
center.
• Given limited 
understanding of the 
value chain within 
pathology, mathematical 
breakdown of revenues 
proved to be a helpful 
alternative.
Case Facts
• Decrease in revenue 
with costs unchanged
• Centres in North, 
South, West and East 
areas of Mumbai.
• Specialized tests are 
not conducted by our 
client.
• Colaba center 
(contributing to 45% 
of total revenues) is 
the only one facing 
reduction in 
revenues.
• Centralized path-
laboratory but 
radiology is done at 
the center.
Profitability | Revenue Decline | Healthcare | Easy
2024-2025
Click here for 
Panorama Report!

===== PAGE 46 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
A fishing company has faced a decline in profits of 15% over the last year. The CEO has hired you 
to find out why this has happened.
I would like to ask some preliminary questions to understand the situation better. What exactly 
does the company do and what geography does it operate in?
It employs fishermen, who use the company’s boats to go to sea and catch fish. They sell the catch 
directly to customers in the town. The company is also in the business of leasing fishing boats. The 
company is based out of Goa.
Alright. I’d also like to know whether the drop in profits is an industry wide phenomenon or is it 
just limited to our company.
The decline in profits is unique to our client.
Does our client have multiple product lines within seafood, or do they sell just fish?
They only sell two types of fish – large and small.
Do these products differ based on price, cost per unit and margins?
Small fish are considered premium and sell at 1.25x of the price of big fish. However, it costs the 
same to catch those fish.
Okay, that’s interesting. So let me know try and identify the cause for drop in profitability. Since
profitability is a function of revenue and cost, I’d like to analyse the two. Starting with the cost
component, what has been the trend over the last year?
Our costs have actually gone down by 5%.
Okay, that’s interesting. What about your revenue?
Our revenue for the last FY was down 12% YoY.
Alright, so the Revenue component is driving profitability down.
I guess so. So, what do you suggest?
Okay so in a typical fishing company, the major heads of revenue would be fish sales and lease of 
fishing vessels and equipments. Do we have any data with respect to these?
Yes, we do. Our lease income has indeed fallen from the the previous year on account of loss of a 
few customers. But leasing only contributes to about 15% of our total revenue. So, there’s must be 
something else too.
So, a fall in revenue from fish sales must be driven by one of these three factors: fall in average 
selling price, dip in volume or a change in product mix. Do we have any indication about which of 
these it could be?
Yes, that’s indeed correct. So, there has been a change in the product mix that we offer. We have 
found out that we are selling more large fish and fewer small fish than we used to last year. Can 
you help the company understand why this could be the case?
The problem of product mix could either be a demand side issue or supply side issue. Demand side 
issue affect the whole industry and since that is not the case, it is my hypotheses that the problem is 
one of the two: we are unable to catch small fish or are unable to sell them. Do we know which of 
these it could be?
Our catch of small fish has indeed fallen last year. What could be the possible reasons for it?
So, the problem could be either external or internal. Has there been any change in the composition 
in the water body where our fishermen fish? Is it possible that there are fewer small fish available, 
due to either the overall number of fish going down or the # of competitors going up?
No there’s been no change in the composition of the sea. The proportion of small fish available is 
still the same. The number of competitors has stayed the same as well.
Okay then it seems to me that there is some issue with our process of catching and transporting 
fish. Has there been any significant change in the process over the last year? This could be any of 
the following: any change in logistical arrangements, change in fishermen, trawlers or fishing nets or 
even change in our area of fishing For e.g.. distance from the shore.
Actually, yes, there has been. Last year we went on a cost cutting drive. We wanted to reduce our 
expenditure on fishing nets, so we tied up with a company providing cheap recycled nets. However, 
these nets came with a square mesh instead of the diamond mesh that fishermen traditionally use. It 
was found that while the gaps in the diamond shape nets compressed when it came in contact with
water, the square shaped mesh retained its shape under water and allowed a lot of small fish to 
escape through the gap in the nets.
That is some really interesting information!
Thank you for your analysis. You did a good job.
Fishing Company – Interview transcript
Profitability | Revenue decline | Fishing | Moderate
Page 462024-2025

===== PAGE 47 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
A fishing company has faced a decline in profits of 15% over the last year. The CEO has hired you to find out why this has happened.
Approach/ Framework
Observations & Suggestions
• It is important to ask preliminary questions to understand the company and the industry. A key insight (different product lin es and different margins for each) was derived from the 
preliminary questions. 
• It was important to note that change in sales of one product was not linked with change in consumer preferences. The problem can be on the supply side as well so it is useful to analyse
the entire value chain to understand where the problem lies. 
Interviewee Notes
• There could be two 
problems: either client is 
not able to capture fish or 
unable to sell them.
• No change in consumer 
preferences.
• No change in sea 
composition.
• Look for change in process 
of catching fish.
Case Facts
• Company based out of 
Goa.
• Fisherman sell directly to 
customers.
• Profits down by 15% over 
one year.
• Cost have gone down and 
so has revenue.
• Decline limited to client 
and not industry.
• 2 product lines: big and 
small fish.
Fishing Company
Page 47
Profitability | Revenue decline | Fishing | Moderate
Profits 
Price Volume Product Mix
Revenues Costs 
Demand Supply 
Equipment Area of FishingFisherman
2024-2025
Click here for 
Panorama Report!

===== PAGE 48 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is SpiceJet which has recently seen a decline in profitability compared to Indigo. Analyze
the problem and provide solutions.
I would like to ask a few clarifying questions before I begin to analyse the case. Firstly, I would like
to confirm that we are focusing only on SpiceJet’s airline business and domestic travel at that since
we are comparing with Indigo?
Yes, that is correct.
Alright. I would like to then understand the recent industry trends over the last 5 years. Is the
decline in profitability specific to SpiceJet or is it an industry wide phenomenon?
SpiceJet specifically has been facing the issue of decline in profitability.
Since this is the airline industry, has the decline been on some specific routes?
Across the nation.
Is there a specific reason we are comparing our profitability to Indigo’s since our scale and target
population of premium customers (if I can assume that) is different?
No specific reason. Indigo is doing well in the domestic market; they are not seeing the same
decline that SpiceJet is.
Alright then. Since this is a profit problem, I would begin by splitting it into revenue and cost. Are
we observing rising costs or declining revenues?
Both. Let’s start with revenues and move over to costs.
Okay. Revenue for SpiceJet’s airline business can be written as Price X Occupancy X Capacity.
Have we observed a change in any of these components or across all ?
Price has remained the same. Occupancy has declined and capacity has increased.
Again, have these changes occurred across the country or only on some specific routes?
SpiceJet recently started serving some niche routes. Occupancy in those is lower
That makes sense. Just to clarify, since this is a new business for SpiceJet I would like to understand
what kind of investments have been made? Has SpiceJet purchased a new fleet, or has it simply re-
routed its existing fleet?
New fleet has been purchased.
Since it is an occupancy issue (low demand for SpiceJet), I would like to understand the customer
profile in these niche routes. Do these routes have low airline travel demand or is this occupancy
issue specific to SpiceJet? Is this demand likely to grow in the future?
Currently these routes have low travel demand but likely to grow in the future, and therefore the
investment. The demand for premium SpiceJet travel has also been projected to rise.
That’s very helpful. Since we have already made substantial investment, we may not want to
withdraw fleets from these niche routes entirely for now. A few short-term measures which we
can undertake are as follows:
1. We can expedite our marketing activities in these regions
2. We can analyse price sensitivity of the customer pool and accordingly price for now. We need to
keep in mind that this is a price sensitive industry with little pricing power
3. Instead of having flights catering to these niche routes specifically, we can have our new flights on
the conventional routes and have re-routing via these routes.
That makes sense. Let us now come to the cost aspect of the problem.
For the cost aspect of the problem, I would like to draw the cost value chain for SpiceJet which
consists of the following- Cost of materials i.e., expenditure on fleet, processing costs which would
include airport rent, employee salaries, IT services and fuel costs, storage costs which is maintaining
inventories of spare parts, distribution and marketing and customer services (on-board
services). Which part of the value chain would you say is suffering?
SpiceJet is experiencing high storage costs which have recently risen further.
Is Indigo also facing similar costs or is it just SpiceJet?
Only SpiceJet.
Inventory costs can be split into types of inventory held, number of inventory parts and cost of
carry which would include pilferage, warehouse rent, poor demand prediction, poor inventory
management & late supply costs. Is the cost higher than Indigo across all these components?
The cost is high specifically due to the types of inventory held. SpiceJet operates with different kinds
of fleet whereas Indigo has one standardised fleet. Due to this, SpiceJet needs to hold more
inventory. What implications would this have?
Due to different kinds of planes, there is a greater number of spare parts that SpiceJet is having to
hold which is the reason behind higher costs. The costs have risen now more than before, could
probably be driven by the new fleet purchased by SpiceJet for the niche routes. If the new fleet is of
a different type, then cost of inventory due to the new purchase has increased overall costs and led
to a fall in profitability.
That is correct. The new fleet purchased by SpiceJet is smaller and requires an inventory of
different parts. What would your recommendations be?
Okay. So, there are a few things that SpiceJet could do vis-à-vis the inventory costs-
1. Standardise the fleet going forward – Make sure new purchases in the future are standardised.
2. Renting agreements with suppliers of inventory – alternative to purchasing expensive
inventory
3. Hub & spoke model – Have a centralised location where inventory is stored and supply to all
airports instead of maintaining inventory at every airport
4. Need basis – Order inventory on a need basis instead of maintaining excess
SpiceJet vs Indigo – Interview Transcript
Profitability | Aviation | Challenging
Page 482024-2025

===== PAGE 49 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is SpiceJet. It has observed a decline in profitability vis-à-vis Indigo. Analyze the problem and provide solutions.
Interviewee Notes
• Revenues have fallen 
and costs have risen.
• As substantial 
investments have been 
made, withdrawing 
altogether from niche 
routes is not ideal as 
demand is slated to 
grown in the future.
• New fleets purchased 
are of a different type 
leading to higher 
inventory costs.
Case Facts
• SpiceJet airways facing 
declining profitability. Not an 
industry wide trend.
• Focus on airline business, 
domestic travel.
• Occupancy has decline and 
capacity has increased.
• Problem across niche routes.
• New fleet purchased for 
niche routes.
• Faces high storage costs.
SpiceJet vs Indigo
Recommendations
• Revenues- rerouting, bundling, expediting marketing, re-analyzing customer segment.
• Costs- Standardize fleet, hub & spoke, renting agreements, need based inventory procurement.
Observations / Suggestions
• Revenue should also be appropriately split into its components given the airline travel industry.
• Do not directly suggest to undo an action the client has taken, unless there is sufficient evidence to suggest the same.
• While devising strategy to improve occupancy, look at it from the 4P perspective.
• Candidate needs to develop an in-depth understanding of airline industry to split cost into components.
• Understanding of generic methods to cut inventory costs is essential- this can then be tweaked as per the airline industry.
Page 49
Profit
Revenue Cost
Price Occupancy Capacity
Procurement Inbound 
Logistics Operations
Customer 
Segmentation
Outbound 
Logistics
Sales and 
Marketing 
Customer 
Care
Inventory 
Costs
Profitability | Aviation | Challenging
2024-2025
Click here for 
Panorama Report!

===== PAGE 50 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
 Page 50
Home Loan Provider – Interview Transcript
Profitability | BFSI / Financial Services | Moderate
Your client is an affordable home loan provider. They started in 2018-2019 and have grown to have
a book size of 1500 crore by 2022. However, the book size has remained unchanged for the last 8/9
months. What do you think are the reasons for this, and what can we do to help them?
Great. So, a couple of questions before we dive into the solution. What do we mean by affordable
home loans?
They provide loans with small ticket sizes, usually between 10 to 15 lakhs
Is this stagnation an industry-wide trend given the current economic conditions? Additionally, what
does our competition look like? How many direct competitors are there, & what’s their market
share?
It’s not an industry-wide issue. It’s something that has happened to our client only. We have around
4 competitors in the market, and all 5 players have an equal market share.
Since it’s not an industry-wide issue and our book size has not increased over the last 8-9 months,
is it safe to assume our 20% share has fallen and been taken up by our competitors?
Yes, that’s correct. We don’t have the latest numbers, but we expect them to indicate a significant
fall in market share for us.
Okay, understood. So, to assess the reasons for this stagnation, I would like to look at it from
demand and supply sides both. On the demand side, I would like to look at the number of
consumers and the average ticket size per consumer. On the supply side, I’d like to evaluate if any
internal constraints are impacting our ability to disperse loans, such as regulatory authorities'
sanctions on our bank.
We can focus on the demand side for now.
Okay. Breaking down demand into the number of customers and average loan ticket size per
customer. Have we seen a fall in any of these numbers?
The average ticket size has remained the same.
So, this implies that our number of customers has fallen. Have we seen an increase in repayments,
or should I focus on just the fresh loans we are getting?
Good question. We can ignore repayments for this case.
Got it. So, to understand why the number of customers could have gone down, I would like to
work through key elements of their journey – identification of need, competition analysis, selection
of provider, processing of their loan, disbursement of loan and post-disbursement activities. We
already know that demand hasn’t gone down since the competitors aren’t facing this problem, so I’d
like to focus on the other elements. Is there anything specific you would like me to work through?
Yes, we know that the problem is in the processing stage. How would you break it down further?
We can look at the following stages: document collection, document submission, document
verification and approvals.
Looks good. What next?
I’d like to walk through each of these elements and see where the customers are dropping out.
What is our way of document collection – do customers submit it online or do they come to the
branch to submit it?
No, all these remain the same.
Great. We can talk about approvals now. Based on my understanding of the banking industry, I
believe there would be a multi-level approval process that would be followed – starting from initial
approvals at the local branch manager level and moving up to the regional level depending on the
customer’s risk/total loan requirement. Have we seen any change in the approval process – have any
new levels been added or have the rejections at this stage gone up?
That’s correct. We’ve recently added a centralized approval layer at the zonal office to ensure
tighter control on the process. However, the number of loans getting rejected at this stage has gone
up.
Interesting. Is there any reason for this increase? Are the customer documents not meeting specific
criteria or are there any deviations not identified earlier?
The approver is being extra cautious and asking for more customer documents. There is no fault at
the previous levels of verification.
Understood. Given how we collect the documents from our customers from their homes, is it
correct to assume that we now must travel back with these documents to their house and collect
the updated ones again?
Yes. What do you think are the implications of this?
This would cause our turnaround time to go up significantly which could lead to dropouts.
Correct. That is what is happening. What are some recommendations you would give them?
My recommendation would be –
1) Analyze the abnormalities being identified by the zonal approver and see if we can incorporate
them in our standard documentation so we can remove the incidence of this at the source
2) Relook the need for a centralized zonal approval
3) In the long run, we can consider moving to an online/app-based set-up so the turnaround time for
the entire process can be reduced significantly
Great, I think we can end the case here.
Thank you for your time.
2024-2025

===== PAGE 51 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
 Page 51
Home Loan Provider
Profitability | BFSI / Financial Services | Moderate
Interviewee Notes
• Profitability case to
diagnose revenue
stagnation
• 2 levels of customer
journey need to be
analyzed to diagnose the
problem
• Process analysis indicates
the reason why turnaround
time has increased
Case Facts
• Client is an affordable
home loan provider
with ticket size ~10 to
15 lacs
• The client diagnosed
the problem in the
processing stage for
the loans
• New layer of
personnel added to the
approval process,
increasing the
turnaround time
Recommendations
• In the short run – Analyze the abnormalities being identified by the zonal approver to
remedy the problem at the source
• In the long run – Online/app-based set-up so the turnaround time for the entire process
can be reduced significantly
Key Learnings
• The candidate did a good job of bifurcating the problem into demand-driven issues and
supply-side issues even if the problem arises only in the demand side
• The candidate displayed industry knowledge when breaking down the customer journey
during loan disbursement – having a fundamental grasp over different industries always helps
Approach / Framework
Your client is an affordable home loan provider whose book size has remained unchanged for the last 8/9 months. What do you think are the reasons for
this, and what can we do to help them?
Book Size
>18 years
Need 
Identification
Number of Customers Average Ticket Size
New Customers Repeat Customers
Selection of 
Service Loan Processing Loan 
Disbursement Post-Sales
Document 
Collection
Document 
Submission
Document 
Verification Approval
Zonal
Regional
Local
2024-2025
Click here for 
Panorama Report!

===== PAGE 52 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Port Operator – Interview Transcript
Profitability | Stagnant Revenue | Logistics / Ports | Moderate | Kearney Buddy Case 
Now I’d like to further segment my analysis into two parts. i) issues that are internal to the 
transaction between the port operator and their clients, and ii) issues that are external to the 
transaction between the port operator and their clients. May I begin with internal issues first? 
Yes
Within internal issues, I’d like to look at 6 factors. i) Need or inherent demand- which we have
already established is not the problem here, ii) Awareness of our port - which also shouldn’t be an
issue given that a new port is a massive investment and would presumably be big news, iii)
Accessibility to our port - this could be a potential issue, iv) Experience our clients have while
availing our services - this could also be a potential issue which depends on the quality of services
we provide, v) Affordability of our services- which can be an issue if we aren’t competitively priced,
and vi) Presence of substitutes and competitors to our services. Have we noticed any problems in
the 6 factors I have mentioned?
Your assumption on the Need and Awareness is correct. As we are a new port, we have used the
most state-of-the-art technology available and provide services of the highest quality. Accessibility,
Experience, and Substitutes also aren’t an issue.
That’s interesting! We are unable to attract clients even though we have the best port operations
on the western coast. I’d now like to look at external factors.
Sure, go ahead.
Great, so now I’d like to look at macro-economic factors at play here. There are 6 lenses I’d 
consider, i) Political, ii) Economic, iii) Social, iv) Technological, v) Environmental, & vi) Legal. I will 
analyse these from the perspective of the manufacturer and not the shipment companies as they are 
the ultimate decision-maker on choice of port.
What do you mean by political? Could you please elaborate?
Political issues could be due to opposition by the government. This could manifest itself on the lines 
of certain regulations & laws, or even in the form of import duties that are specific to Gujarat, so 
that manufacturers are discouraged from using our port.
You are partly right. The reason we wanted to begin operating a port here was because there was a 
Special Economic Zone (SEZ) that was due to come up in Rajkot which are usually more liberal than 
the economic laws that are applicable in that particular nation. Therefore, the cargo manufacturers 
get discounts on taxes/duties when they sell through an SEZ. Unfortunately, due to many protests 
by the local public in Rajkot, the government decided not to sanction the SEZ. Therefore, we are 
finding it difficult to attract new clients, who in any case have a stickiness to their existing trade 
routes. Can you now give us recommendations to solve this problem.
Definitely. I have two sets of recommendations: long-term and short-term.
Long Term: i) Lobby with the government to sanction the SEZ, ii) Lobby with the government to 
improve the downstream logistics infrastructure to reduce the overall cost of transportation for the 
exporters and encourage them to use our port, iii) Align our services with the industry trends in 
terms of the type of cargo being exported to gain a competitive advantage.
Short Term: i) Partner with downstream logistics players to provide a join service at a lower cost as 
they would also be suffering due to the absence of the SEZ. ii) Provide price discounts.
Alright. Let’s stop here. Well done. Thank you.
Your client is a port operator on the western coast on India. They have noticed that their profits 
over the last few years have been much lower than their expectations. They want you to figure out 
the problem and recommend solutions for the same.
Before I begin with my analysis, I would like to understand the problem statement a bit better. 
What is the quantum of the decline we’ve seen and how long has it existed? 
Actually, there hasn’t been a decline. It is just that they have not been able to meet the expectations 
that were set. This issue has persisted since they began operations around 3-4 years ago. 
Oh, I see! Thank you for clarifying. Can you please share some numbers regarding the expectations 
we had and the actual profits we were able to earn
Sure! The client has 3 revenue streams - Rental Charges, Storage & Handling. Our revenue 
expectations were unmet for all the 3 streams. The costs have been consistent.
Oh okay, I am unsure on what these 3 streams actually are, can you please elaborate on the same? 
Also, as the costs have been the same each year, can I ignore costs for the purpose of this analysis.
Yes, Rental Charges refer to the fee charged to shipment companies for allowing them to dock 
their ships at our port. Further, they often need a warehouse to store their cargo near the port 
before the downstream logistics kicks in for which we charge a storage fee. Lastly, we charge 
a handling fee for providing our clients with the required labor to transport the cargo from their 
ships to the warehouse and from the warehouse to the trucks/ railway stations. These are all 
charged on a monthly basis. Also, you can ignore the variations in costs and focus on the 
revenues.
Great! Now that I have understood the problem statement, I would like to understand the business 
environment. Which geography does our client operate in? And are other ports operating in the 
same geography facing issues like our client?
Our client's port is located just south of Rajkot. And yes, our competition has seen a minor decline 
in revenues since we began operations, but for the purpose of this problem you can assume that 
our competition isn’t facing this issue. 
Alright! I think I have enough information to begin my analysis. May I take a minute to structure my 
thoughts?
Sure, go ahead.
Okay, so revenues are a function of 2 things: i) the number of clients we have and ii) the price we
charge each client. I would like to delve deeper into these 2 parameters and understand where the
issue lies. Does this sound like a fair approach?
Yes, it does. Why don’t you move ahead.
Sure. Based on my initial analysis of the revenue figures I wanted to begin with Rental Charges.
However, we are given that the client’s actual revenues failed to meet expectations across all
revenue streams. It will be highly unusual for a port operator to suddenly drop the prices of
all kinds of charges, so the issue we are facing is likely to be on account of the number of clients.
That is an excellent inference! Why do you think we have been able to attract fewer clients than we
had intended to?
Thank you! Now, a shortfall in our expectation of the number of clients could come from two
factors i) It can be a supply-side issue, or ii) It can a demand-side issue. Since our competitors
haven’t noticed a similar shortfall in the number of clients, my hypothesis is that this is not due to a
change in the inherent demand of our clients. It is likely that the issue stems from our client’s
inability to supply their customers with the services they want.
That’s a fair point, please proceed. 
2024-2025 Page 52

===== PAGE 53 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Recommendations
• Lobbying with the government to sanction an SEZ is such situations is usually futile but is still worth the effort given the capital investment that has already been made by the client 
• Lobbying with the government for better downstream logistics infrastructure (roads, rail terminals, multi-modal logistics parks, IWT) is more prudent as it reduces the overall transportation cost for cargo (~50% 
of overall cost) & more importantly aligns with the goals of the government.
• Partnering with the downstream logistics players (truckers, rail operators, terminal operators) is a “service differentiation” strategy that was actually recommended by Kearney to the client     
• Price discounts and alignment of services with industry trends is something that the port operator would have already tried, nonetheless, it is important to state.    
Key Learnings
• Numbers are always given with a purpose, it is easy to ignore them when no insights are easily evident, but one needs to spend enough time digging deeper.  
• Understanding the decision maker in the value chain is the key to unearthing many issues that exist with services providers that are part of value chains with more than a single node.  
Your client is a port operator on the western coast on India. They have noticed that their profits over the last few years have been much lower than their
expectations. They want you to figure out the problem and recommend solutions for the same.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• It is important to understand 
the problem statement i.e., 
shortfall in expectations and 
not profit decline
• Preliminary questions around 
actual revenue & expected 
revenue, geographic location, 
timeline & competitors were 
crucial to solving this case.
• Sharing hypothesis on “no. of 
clients” being the real issue 
helped get to the root cause 
quicker. 
• Understand the value chain 
to identify the real decision-
maker (here, manufacturer 
and not the shipment 
company).
• This case tests- structure, 
numeracy, judgement, 
communication & 
adaptability. 
Case Facts
• Issue persists since 
inception- 3-4 years, and 
is specific to our client
• Port located south of 
Rajkot.
• Expected revenues, 
actual revenues & costs 
have remained the same 
each year
• Service quality is 
superior to competition
• Manufactures 
(exporters) think of 
shippers and port 
operators as nodes in 
the value chain. They 
are the decision makers.
• No demand side issue 
as our competition can 
reach their targets
• Political unrest resulted 
in the government not 
sanctioning the SEZ 
which resulted in low 
demand for our port.
Revenues
Revenue/
Client
No. of 
Clients
Supply 
Issue
Demand 
Issue
Demand Supply
Page 53
Internal External
Port Operator
Need
Awareness
Accessibility
Experience
Accessibility
Substitutes
Manufacturer Shipper Port Buyer
(Exporter) (Importer)
Political
Economic
Social
Technological
Environmental
Legal
2024-2025
Click here for 
Panorama Report!
Profitability | Stagnant Revenue | Logistics / Ports | Moderate | Kearney Buddy Case 

===== PAGE 54 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Fast Food Industry – Interview Transcript
Profitability | Cost reduction | F&B | Challenging | McKinsey (Finals)
Page 54
Continued on the next page >>
Your client is the owner of a famous Burger Chain in India with various outlets located in and
around major tech cities- Hyderabad, Bangalore and Pune near the major tech parks and major
shopping malls. For the past two years you are facing decline in the profits. What’s the reason
behind it, and how would you improve the profits?
Just to reiterate, we need to identify the reasons for the decline in the profits of the burger chain
and how to improve the profits.
Yes, that’s correct.
Before getting to the analysis, I wanted to know about the business in a little more depth-
Is the issue of declining profits pertaining to a particular region or all three regions?
The profits have declined in the Bangalore region; for Hyderabad and Pune region, it has been 
increasing.
Ok, and Does the company operate through a franchise model or are a self-run business?
They are a self-run business. Why is it relevant here?
In some of the cases, it might happen that if there’s a franchisee, then the operations remain 
standardized. But if they are a self-run business, they could try to change their operations 
depending on the different regions they are operating. So, they might have different streams of 
revenue or different cost structures.
Fair enough. Go ahead.
So now I would like to analyze the reason for the profits decline in the Bangalore region by 
breaking it down the profits into its two components- Revenue and Costs.
For this particular case, you can assume that the revenues have remained constant for the past 
years, but we have seen an increase in our costs.
Ok, so are the increasing costs an issue for both the outlets in shopping malls and tech parks or 
any one of them?
The costs for the outlets in the shopping mall have remained relatively in line with the revenue of 
the outlet.
To get the idea of the Tech park outlets- are those sites typical dine-in only, or they also have 
different services like drive-through and what are their operating times?
Good observation, they operate both dine-ins and drive-throughs in separate spaces but in the 
same areas. The Dine-ins are operational from 10 am to 11 pm, but the drive-throughs open in the 
evening from 5 pm to 2 am.
Why is that they are not sharing the same outlet?
Its not relevant but you can assume that there might be some layout issues related to the 
construction of the drive-through.
In this scenario, I would like to break down the cost side by going through the outlets near Tech 
parks’ dine-in service and drive-through service. Further, I would like to divide the cost 
components into fixed and variable costs.
So, for the dine-in, the fixed costs would include the rent of the outlet, maintenance costs, 
employees’ salaries, licenses, insurances, marketing and the variable costs would consist of the 
inventory, other utilities- uniforms, hourly payrolls.
For the drive-through, the fixed costs would include the rent for those premises, the employees, 
different insurance costs, licenses and the variable costs would consist of the hourly payoffs, 
inventory, and other utilities.
Is there anything else that I should consider?
No, this seems fine.
So do we know about the rents and payrolls for the dine-in outlets. Are they increasing?
No, they have remained constant for the past two years. You can consider that the fixed costs 
haven’t increased much for them and also the variable costs are in line with the revenues. You can 
focus on the Drive-throughs.
So, in case of Drive-throughs as I discussed the fixed and variable costs, I am assuming the 
insurance costs, licenses and other utilities will be most likely constant. So, is there any issue with 
the employee salaries and the variable hourly payrolls.
Yes, the fixed employee salaries have increased significantly and also the hourly payrolls have gone 
up. Could you rationalize the reasons?
This could because of the following reasons- The fixed number of employees has increased in the 
drive-through outlet and their salaries have increased, but if we consider the increase in salary this 
would have also affected the dine-in outlets, so this could be attributed to the increase in number 
of employees owing to the increased footfall. The other reason could be the hourly payrolls have 
increased for the employees working late in the night with their numbers also increasing and mostly 
during the weekends.
Seems fine. So, what suggestions would you give to address these issues?
Ok so as we have now identified the cause of the increased costs, I will move towards the 
recommendations. Firstly, we need to identify the choke points in the system. So, the various 
components in a drive-through are -
• Microphone to place your order
• Employee listening to the order
• Movement of the burger order
• The window where the customer interacts with the employee to take the order
Makes sense. What can we change across these steps?
In the following points to reduce dependence on the employees, there are several points that could 
be automated. The order placed could be connected to a voice recognition system to automate the 
order placement. The window where the employee gives the customer could be replaced by 
another type of vending machine where the employee in the kitchen could put the order in a 
specified segment in the machine which could be accessed through an OTP given while placing the 
order. A conveyor could be used to transfer the food from cooking area to the segments of the 
vending machine.
Alright, is there anything else we can look at to reduce costs?
Another thing that could be done is to see if the number of employees in the night shift which are 
on hourly payrolls is justified with the number of the customers coming during that time. If its not 
justified, the drive-through’s timing could be changed accordingly. Do we have any data about the 
arrival patterns?
The peak hours are 9 pm to 1 am, and average arrival before that. But after 1am, it is very low.
So as the arrival is very less during 1 am to 2 pm we could change our operating hours from 5 pm 
to 1 am.
That’s good. Do you think Capex for the automation sector could be justified?
Yes, I think even in the changing technological scenario automation provides you an added 
advantage of having a competitive advantage while reducing the redundant work.
2024-2025

===== PAGE 55 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Continuing on the lines of automation, consider the burger chain contracted some vendors and
received a deal for coffee machines. So where do you think these machines could be used and how
do you justify going ahead with this venture?
Ok, so to analyse the scenario we have to look at the consumption patterns of coffee. So, I would
like to analyse the footfall in different regions at different times of the day and also the coffee
demand in the different regions. So, is there any data related to that?
Yeah, they had already done a market survey in all three regions, so it is found that the coffee
drinkers are most in Bangalore followed Hyderabad and Pune but not much difference. Also, the
footfall is maximum around 9-11 am.
So, do we know anything about the age group of the consumers?
Yes, there’s a particular age group which consumes more coffee - 25-40 years.
Can we infer that from the given data that given the particular environment that there is in these
cities, i.e., tech culture with most of the professionals working in tech firms and arriving to the
office effectively at that time when the coffee consumption is also at the peak.
It’s a valid inference.
In order to deploy the vending machines at the most optimal areas, it is necessary that they are
near or around the major hotspots, i.e., around the Tech parks in all three regions, where the
working professionals could have easy access to quality coffee without any hassle. So, the coffee
vending machines could be used in the outlets near the tech parks to be better placed to succeed
in this venture. Moving to the justification of the venture, do we have any data about the capex of
the chain pre-decided for the vending machines and what are the total number of outlets in these
three regions near the tech parks?
There are in total 4 dine-in outlets near tech parks in Pune. In Hyderabad, there are 5 dine-ins and
for Bangalore, there are 7 dine-in outlets and 4 drive-throughs. In Hyderabad and Pune, there are
no drive-throughs. They have a agreed upon capex of INR 10.5 Lakhs initially.
So, if we assume that a general vending machine costs around INR 35,000, so we can purchase 30
machines. And to reduce the bottlenecks we can install 2 machines in each of the outlets except
for only one in two outlets in Pune. To get to know about the breakeven, is it safe to assume that
the variable costs per dispensed cup is INR 30 depending on the premium quality, cost of
standardised good quality cups and size of the serving. And what are they thinking to price per cup
of coffee at?
Go ahead with the assumption. They are thinking of pricing it at around INR 100 per cup.
We have the fixed price, the variable price and the selling price, so we can find the break-even
values for the number of cups to be dispensed for all the three regions. For Bangalore, it is 7000
cups, for Hyderabad - 5000 cups and Pune - 3000 cups.
So, if we consider during the peak hours i.e., between 9-11 am the arrival is 20 per hour and for
the rest of the day it could be averaged out to ~2 per hour. So, for the day it is - 42 per day. For
Hyderabad let’s assume 80% w.r.t. to Bangalore and for Pune, let's assume 60% w.r.t. Bangalore.
The number of cups per day in Hyderabad - 33 and Pune - 25.
The investment could be recovered around 170 days which is approximately half a year. So, if they
want to use it in different regions and different outlets they can plan accordingly. So according to
me they should go ahead with the venture.
Thanks, that would be all.
Page 55
Fast Food Industry – Interview Transcript
Profitability | Cost reduction | F&B | Challenging | McKinsey (Finals)
2024-2025

===== PAGE 56 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is an owner of of a famous Burger Chain in India. Identify the problem and provide recommendation to tackle the issue.
Approach/ Framework
Value Chain
(Drive-throughs)
Interviewee Notes
• Reduced profits over a 
two-year period time 
because of increased 
costs.
• Identify the issues on the 
cost side.
• Two types of outlets-
Tech park and Mall 
outlets, Issue only in tech 
park outlets.
• Identify the value chain 
choke points.
• For vending machines-
Consumption pattern, and 
age group.
• Justifying capex through 
breakeven analysis.
Case Facts
• Increasing costs.
• Client has 20 burger 
joints in three regions 
with problem in 
Bangalore region.
• Tech park and mall 
outlets.
• For coffee vending 
machine-Peak hour for 
consumption- 9-11 am
• Capex for vending 
machines- INR 10.5 
Lakhs.
Recommendations
• Use automation in the value chain of the drive-ins to reduce the number of employees to keep the salary of the employees under control.
• To keep the costs related to hourly payrolls less, change our operating hours from 5 pm to 1 am.
• For Vending machine, install the vending machine in the outlets near to the tech parks and go ahead with the venture.
Observations / Suggestions
• It is necessary to understand the business model of the chain, even if there’s some doubt clarify it to get a clearer picture of the issue. 
• Along with this, it is important to understand the value chain of any offering. 
Page 56
Order on 
Microphone
Order 
Receiver
 Processing
 Window for 
Delivery
Profits
Revenue
Inventory Hourly
Payrolls
Utilities
InventoryMarketing Licenses
Salaries Rent
Cost
Tech Park 
Outlets Mall Outlets
Dine-ins
Fixed Variable
Drive-
throughs
Fixed Variable
Rent Salaries
Fast Food Industry – Interview Transcript
Profitability | Cost reduction | F&B | Challenging | McKinsey (Finals)
2024-2025
Click here for: 
Panorama Report 1
Panorama Report 2

===== PAGE 57 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a leading textile company in India. Recently it has been experiencing a decline in its 
return on capital. Could you analyse why?
Sure, I would like to begin by understanding more about the company and its products. What 
geography does the company cater to? Could you please tell me about its product portfolio?
The client sells different types of menswear and womenswear through retail outlets. Their stores 
are spread out across India, mostly in Tier-1 cities.
Alright. So that implies that the client buys clothes from wholesalers and sells it to consumers 
through retail outlets, is that right? Is the decline related to a particular store or region?
Yes, the client procures from suppliers and sells to final consumers. The decline is across all the 
stores in India.
Noted. Do we have any information about the quantum of the decline and since when this 
happened?
There has been a 4% decline in the last year.
Are other players in the industry facing this same issue?
No. It seems to be a problem specific to the client’s firm.
Right. Are we considering the returns to just the equity shareholders or the overall return to the 
firm?
The decline is based on the overall long-term capital.
Great! I would now like to dive into the case and structure it to get to the bottom of the problem. I
will begin by breaking down Return on Capital into its component parts: Operating Profits and
Capital Employed. Next, I will identify which of these are a problem and further look into factors
that may have changed to alter either of these. Would you like me to proceed in this way?
Yes, that sounds like a good start. Why don’t you go ahead?
Since ROC is a function of profits and capital, I would like to know if the profits have decreased, or
the capital has increased or both.
The capital employed by the firm has increased.
Okay. This implies that the firm is requiring more capital than last year to earn the same amount as
operating profits, am I correct?
Yes, that is right.
To analyse why more capital is being used to generate the same profits, I would like to break down 
capital into its constituents. If we look at which assets are being financed, we can divide the capital 
into two parts- fixed capital and working capital. Fixed capital is the permanently deployed capital in 
the business, that would have been used to fund the land, buildings, machinery and other such assets 
of a long-term nature. On the other hand, working capital is used to meet the day-to-day 
operational cash requirements of the firm. Can we compare the balance sheet as on date with last 
year to understand if one or both of these components have increased?
That’s a good idea. On comparing the two balance sheets, we find that the working capitalinvested 
in the business has increased.
Right. Since working capital equals current assets less current liabilities, we can further break down 
working capital by analyzing current assets and current liabilities separately. Current assets would 
include cash and bank, inventories, trade receivables, prepaid expenses, short-term investments, and 
advances. There can be other elements as well, but I am assuming these are the major heads. Is this 
assumption valid?
Yes, you can proceed.
Great. Similarly, we can segregate current liabilities into trade payables, short-term loans, accrued 
expenses, bank overdrafts and unearned revenues.
The next step would be to find out if any of the constituents of current assets or current liabilities 
have seen a pronounced change from last year. Alternatively, multiple constituents might have 
changed in small amounts resulting in a large aggregate change. Do we have numerical data that can 
help confirm either hypothesis?
From the balance sheets once again, we can say that there is a stark difference between the trade 
payables in the two years.
For working capital requirement to have increased, trade payables would have to fall given the 
relationship defined earlier. Now we could look into possible reasons why the firm’s creditors have 
decreased. Can I proceed with this approach?
Sure, go ahead.
Some reasons why this might happen are as follows:-
First, the firm’s suppliers might have changed, and the new suppliers have allowed a smaller period 
of credit than the earlier ones. However, this would have possibly had an impact on the cost of 
goods sold as well and thereby the profits, unless the price levels between suppliers are fairly 
similar.
Second, the existing suppliers might have changed their credit terms resulting in a shorter credit 
period and thereby lesser payables.
Have either of these events occurred?
Not really. Are you aware of how credit terms are framed in such contracts usually? Maybe that 
could help you pin-point the issue.
From what I know, suppliers usually allow retailers a certain period, say ten days, within which they 
have to make the payment for supplied goods. If the retailer makes the payment before that, he may 
be eligible for a cash discount, which is calculated usually as a percentage of the purchase price.
Correct. So what might have happened here?
The client may have changed its policy of payment to the suppliers. Earlier, the client would have 
been paying them the dues beyond the stipulated payment period. However, to avail the cash 
discount this year, the client could have reduced the credit period. In all probability, the benefit 
from the cash discount was outweighed by the increased working capital requirement as a result of
the decrease in credit period from the suppliers.
Great. So what working capital changes would you recommend for increasing RoCE?
Since current liabilities have decreased, we can either consider decreasing current assets or 
increasing current liabilities. Current assets can be adjusted either by factoring receivables or 
offering cash discounts to client’s buyers for early payment. Reverse factoring can be explored to 
increase current liabilities.
Alright. That makes sense. Let us wrap it up here. Thank you.
Textile (Retail) – Interview Transcript
Profitability | Increasing Return on Capital Employed | Textile | Challenging
Page 572024-2025

===== PAGE 58 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a leading textile company in India. Recently it has been experiencing a decline in its return on capital. Could you analyse why?
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• It is important to 
understand whether the 
cause of decline is due to 
profits or capital.
• Balance Sheet structure 
and retail-specific 
purchase contracts need 
to be focused on
• Decline is because of 
higher working capital 
requirements. 
• Trade payables have 
reduced due to change in 
firm’s policy towards 
supplier credit terms.
Case Facts
• Leading textile 
company in India 
(retail)
• Decline in return on 
capital (4% decline last 
year)
• Problem specific to the 
firm and not industry
• Focus on overall return 
on capital (not equity)
• Capital employed by 
firm has increased
Return on Capital
Operating 
Profits
Total 
Capital
Fixed 
Capital
Working 
Capital
Infrastructure Machines Current 
Assets
Current 
Liabilities
Trade 
Receivables
Unearned 
Revenues
Cash and 
Bank
Investments
Trade 
Payables
Loans and 
Overdraft
Textile (Retail)
Recommendations
• Shift back to the old policy of the extended credit system rather than availing the cash discount.
• Use factoring of receivables to reduce current assets or offer credit buyers cash discount for early payment.
• Another alternative is to negotiate with the suppliers in order to extend the period within which cash discount can be availed.
• Negotiate with customers in order to reduce trade receivables (like using reverse factoring) or avoid selling before payment (zero-debtor policy). This would free up some working 
capital.
Observations / Suggestions
• It is important to be aware of the different components that constitute capital.
• Textile industry-specific knowledge could help to ascertain forms of contracts and thereby reasons for the decline.
Page 58
Inventories Accrued 
Expenses
Profitability | Increasing Return on Capital Employed | Textile | Challenging
2024-2025
Click here for 
Panorama Report!

===== PAGE 59 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a leading beverage manufacturer. Recently it has been experiencing a decline in its
profitability. They want you to analyse the causes.
To begin with, I would like to know the timeline and magnitude of decline.
The decline has been observed over the past 1-2 years and has been around 5-10%.
Alright I would now like to understand the client’s business a little better. Specifically, I would like
to know about their geographical presence, product segments and parts of value chain that they
operate in.
They manufacture, distribute and retail two kinds of products: fruit juices and beer, across India.
Okay. Has the decline been observed in a particular product segment or both? Also, who are their
major competitors in this space, and have they experienced a similar decline or is the problem
specific to the client?
There is strong competition in the industry, both in fruit juices and beer categories. The decline for
client has been observed in the beer segment and is specific to the client.
I will begin by breaking down profits for beer business into its component parts: Revenue and
Cost. Next, I will identify which of these are a problem and further look into Internal and External
Factors that may led to a change in the revenue or the cost structure for the category. Would you
like me to proceed in this way?
Sure. The revenues for the client have remained the same and are on par with the industry. I
would like you to focus on the costs.
Alright, to proceed with my analysis, I will look at the steps in the value chain of the client’s
product and narrow down the possible areas where the costs may be rising.
Okay, please go ahead.
For a beer manufacturing firm, the value chain can be broken into raw material procurement,
processing, packaging, storage, distribution and retail. Additionally, there will be transportation
between these steps. Is there any step that I am missing, and you like me to focus on?
Well, to answer that, I have a question for you. Typically, when you go for a beer at a place, how
do you dispose of the bottle?
I leave it at the restaurant. I presume the restaurant either throws those bottles away or passes it
forward for recycling. Okay, so this means that there could be another step in the process after
sale- returning of bottles and reverse logistics.
Bingo! Please proceed with your analysis.
Thanks. Has the client observed the cost increase in any particular step of this value chain?
The packaging costs for the client have risen.
Has the client made any recent changes to the packaging?
Yes, the bottle design has been slightly altered.
Alright, then the increase can be driven by increase in per bottle price by the vendor, which is
likely because the bottle design has been altered or by the increase in number of bottles we
purchase. Do we have an understanding of which of the two have increased for the client?
The unit prices have not changed. The number of bottles purchased has increased.
Okay so it seems like though the revenue has stayed constant- which means that unless the client
has changed product prices, the number of bottles sold would have remained almost same, still the
number of bottles purchased has increased. Now, based on our discussion so far, the packaging for
the client could be sourced in three ways- in-house manufacturing of bottles, purchase from a
vendor and refilling of the returned bottles. Which sources does the client use and has the
increase been observed in any particular category?
The client does not manufacture bottles in-house, only purchase and refills. The purchase of bottles
has increased.
Okay so my hypothesis at this point is that the increase in purchase of bottles is because of the
decrease in refilled bottles. Reason being, as the refilled bottles would logically be lesser costs than
purchased bottles, the client would most likely prefer to have maximum refilled bottles, which is
why the increase in purchase of new bottles must be driven by decrease in refilled bottles.
To understand the decrease in number of refilled bottles, I will look at the reverse logistics chain
for the bottles. After consumption, one would typically return these bottles to the stores or
restaurants. Then these would be collected and then transported to the company’s storehouses.
Does this approach seem okay to you, or should I relook at it?
It is alright, let us go forward and test your hypothesis. The bottles, as you mentioned, after being
returned to stores by the customers, are collected by a district level collector who then transports
it to the client’s warehouses.
Okay, so the decrease in number of bottles returned could happen at multiple points within this
process. It could be because of decrease in number of bottles returned by the customers, which
could be due to things like issues with ease of returning or maybe due to changed bottle design
customers would like to keep the bottle and reuse on their own. The decrease could also be
because of the number of bottles returned by shops - which might be possible if they’ve found some
cheaper recycling alternatives or reselling options etc. It could also be because of losses on the way
in transportation or losses in the client’s warehouses. Is there any particular category you would
like me to focus on?
Yes, I would like you to dig deeper into the transportation losses.
Okay, so transportation losses could be intentional or unintentional. The intentional category is
where the transporter is intentionally reducing the number of bottles- like stealing some and
reselling to other high paying company and the unintentional category is wherein the bottles are
getting damaged. Which of the two factors would you like me to analyze first?
Assume that our partners are all trustworthy and we have foolproof contracts to protect us against
such thefts. Go ahead and analyze the “unintentional category”.
Okay the damage to bottles can be inflicted at three points: loading, transfer and offloading. In case
of loading factors like rough handling could affect. In case of transfer many road, driver etc. related
factors could be responsible. In case of offloading, factors like changes in the offloading bin could be
a reason.
Onloading-offloading are smooth, those employees are seasoned and responsible.
Okay then it has to be transfer. During transfer there could be two kinds of factors that could affect
the losses - internal and external. Internal factors are the ones that are internal to the bottle and
likewise external factors are external to the bottle. I will look at the external factors first. Has there
been any change in the route, vehicle, driver, container?
Nope everything is same.
Okay then I will analyze the internal factors. The bottles inside the truck, could be getting damaged
because of collisions between each other or because of falling down. Now since the design of the
bottles has changed, it is likely that the new design is more prone to toppling due to changed fitting
within the crates (which were fit for earlier bottles). Increased collisions could also occur due to a
similar reason.
Great. So how do you suggest we can manage this?
Beverage Manufacturer – Interview Transcript
Profitability | Cost reduction | F&B | Challenging | BCG
Page 592024-2025

===== PAGE 60 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
I would structure my recommendations into two parts: reducing the decline in number of bottles
lost and newer ways to reduce costs of the bottle.
Ways to reduce decline:.
1. Redesign better crates to avoid collisions and falling of bottles.
2. Another way could be to design a method to horizontally store bottles in the truck to reduce
chances of falling.
3. Ensuring that the truck goes completely full so that there is lower degree of freedom for the
bottles, and they don’t move from their place and fall/collide.
4. Consumers can be incentivized to return more bottles, through ad campaigns, environment
cautious communication offers, art installations etc.
Ways to reduce costs:
1. Look at recycling options through the vendor- for example selling the bottles back to the vendor
for recycling. This income can offset the purchase costs.
2. Look at other packaging materials- probably like tin cans- however this would involve a
significant marketing effort.
Okay thanks for those suggestions. We can close the case here.
Beverage Manufacturer – Interview Transcript
Page 60
Profitability | Cost reduction | F&B | Challenging | BCG
2024-2025

===== PAGE 61 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a beverage manufacturer who is facing a decline in profitability. They want you to figure out the reason for the same
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Include returning of bottle 
or reverse logistics in the 
value chain.
• Increase in purchase cost 
can be driven by increase 
in bottle cost or number 
of bottles purchased.
• Increase in bottles 
purchased is due to 
decrease in refilling of 
returned bottles.
• Transportation losses can 
happen at three stages-
loading, unloading and 
transfer.
Case Facts
• Beverage manufacturer 
dealing in 2 kinds of 
products- fruit juice and 
beer across India.
• Client specific decline, 
over past 1-2 years.
• Focus on profits from 
beer. Focus on the cost 
side.
• Packaging has changed 
and packaging co.sts
have increased.
Profits
Revenue Costs
Recommendations
• Redesign crates or design a method to horizontally store bottles in the truck to avoid collisions and falling of bottles.
• Ensuring that the truck goes completely full so that there is lower degree of freedom for the bottles, and they don’t move from their place and fall/collide.
• Consumers can be incentivized to return more bottles, through ad campaigns, environment cautious communication offers, art in stallations etc.
• Look at recycling options through the vendor- for example selling the bottles back to the vendor for recycling. This income can offset the purchase costs.
Observations / Suggestions
• When it comes to consumer goods, it is better to analyze the costs through Value chain- that way it is unlikely that you will miss any cost.
• It is important to take interviewer’s buy-in to ensure that no steps are missed. Like here, it let to identification of reverse logistics.
• Relating previous findings with analysis at later stage is also crucial.
Page 61
Beverage Manufacturer
Customers Stores
Transportation
Intentional Unintentional
Onloading Transfer Offloading
External Internal
Packaging 
Cost per Bottle Number of Bottles 
Purchased
Refilling of Returned 
Bottles
Raw Material Manufacturing Storage Distribution
Profitability | Cost reduction | F&B | Challenging | BCG
2024-2025
Client 
Warehouse
Dist. Level 
Collector
Click here for 
Panorama Report!

===== PAGE 62 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Water Purifier Manufacturer – Interview Transcript
Profitability | Cost Reduction | Industrial Sector | Moderate | McKinsey Buddy Case
Okay. And what kind of after-sales service is being offered by the dealers?
There are two types – scheduled service which is offered to every buyer within the warranty
period and unscheduled service which is offered upon receiving any complaint from the buyer. The
cost of scheduled service is entirely borne by the manufacturer. Unscheduled service involves
additional revenue to the client from sale of spare parts.
I would like to focus first on scheduled service as it is increasing only costs and not revenue.
Sure. Sounds like a reasonable choice. We can evaluate unscheduled service later if time permits.
Yes. So, I would like to divide costs of scheduled service as material (spare parts like filter to
replace), man (employees like technicians in dealerships) and method (the process followed for the
service). Is there any of these component where the client could be facing higher costs?
The client is as efficient as competitors with production of spare parts and the dealers are also
following industry standard processes for service. Can you further expand on the dealership cost?
Definitely. I would consider the dealership cost per unit of the purifier to benchmark with
competitors. I would divide the dealership cost into number of services per unit and rate charged
by dealers per service. Number of services per unit can be further expressed as number of services
per year and warranty period in years. Is the client offering anything different from competitors in
these numbers?
No. The client is offering 2-year warranty period with standard number of services per year same as
the competitors.
Okay. Then moving to rate charged by dealers per service, can you please explain if the rate is fixed
or there are further components involved?
Yes. So, the rate charged by dealers consists of three components – a base value of Rs. 100/service,
an incentive value of Rs. 50/service if the service time is less than 8 hrs. and a conveyance value per
service depending upon the distance travelled by the technician.
Benchmarking against the competitors, is there any component where the client is incurring higher
costs? Do we have any data about that?
Yes. So, the total costs incurred are higher for the incentive value component.
I see. I would like to split the incentive component as rate per service and the fraction of total
services qualified for incentive. Which of these components is higher as compared to competitors?
Well, the rate of incentive component is common across all the dealerships. The fraction of
qualified services seems to be higher in case of the client.
As the incentive is based on the criteria of service time less than 8 hrs., this could imply that maybe
competitors have a tighter criteria for this component. Is there any reason why this value was set as
8 hrs.
So, the client had renewed the agreement with dealers about a year ago. In the new agreement of 3
years, the client decided to offer better incentive component to attract new dealers as well as
retain existing dealers. Therefore, the criteria was set at 8 hrs. as compared to competitor’s value
of 3 hrs. Now, can you provide recommendations to the client based on the analysis performed?
Sure. I would like to divide the recommendations into two categories based on short-term and
long-term orientation.
In short term, as the agreement will continue, the client may not be able to modify the dealership
rate structure. The client can implement cost cutting operations in other parts of after-sales service
operation. However, in long term, it is highly recommended to work on reducing the time criteria
as it will also improve customer satisfaction with after-sales service. The client can renew the
agreement with a tighter constraint and work on building better relationships with the dealers
providing them the necessary support & expertise on improving operational efficiency.
Great. We can conclude here. Thank you.
Your client is a water purifier manufacturer in India. The client is experiencing lower
profitability compared to its competitors. The client has hired you to analyse and give
recommendations.
I would first like to receive clarification on how the client is defining profitability. Is it defined as the
ratio profit/revenue? Also, is the profit being considered operating profit or net profit? Is it a recent
phenomenon or long term one?
You are correct about the definition of profitability. The client is using EBITDA (Earnings Before
Interest, Tax, Depreciation & Amortization) value for profitability calculations. This issue is
occurring for past one year.
Okay. I think I am clear about the problem statement. Now, I would like to understand about the
client’s business. Where is the client located in the value chain of this product? I think at a high level,
such a product will have its value chain as Suppliers → Manufacturer → Distributor → Retailer.
You are correct about the value chain. The client is mainly a manufacturer of the purifiers.
Okay. And what are different types of purifiers offered by the client? Is the profitability issue specific
to any single type?
The client offers two types of technologies – RO and UV. Both types are facing the same issue.
Got it. Then, I would like to understand geographic span of the client. Where is the client currently
operating namely location of manufacturing plant and covered geography of sales?
The client sales purifiers across India. The only manufacturing plant is in Gurgaon.
Okay. And to what kind of customers is the client offering its products?
The client sales purifiers to residential as well as industrial applications.
Is the profitability issue particular to a segment or across both the segments?
This issue is faced mainly by the residential segment of customers.
Next, I would like to understand about competition present in this industry. How is the presence of
client in the market?
The water purifier market is largely organized. Organized players occupy 60% share in the market.
There are four major players in the market and the client has a 28% market share.
Okay, I assume the client is a market leader considering such a high value of market share. I think I
have our client’s context. Now, I would like to evaluate different components of profitability with
respect to competitors to get to the root cause behind client’s issue. EBITDA could be split into
two components – Revenue (+) and Operating Costs (-). Are both of these metrics affected for
our client?
Revenues have been healthy. However, the Operating Costs are higher than all 3 of the client’s
competitors.
Okay! In that case, I would like to take a value chain approach to identify the components of
Operating Cost that are leading to a decrease in profitability. Will that be a good approach?
Sure. You can move ahead with this approach.
The value chain in this industry can broadly be defined as Raw Material and other Inputs -> Inbound
Logistics -> Manufacturing and Quality Check -> Storage and Outbound Logistics -> Marketing &
Sales -> After-sales Service. Where is our client facing higher operating costs?
This looks good. The client is experiencing higher costs in the after-sales service component. Can
you delve into that further?
Sure. First, I would like to understand how the client is operating its after-sales service. Do they
employ technicians or outsource entire after-sales function?
The client, similar to the competitors, uses a dealership model for the after-sales services. Dealers
can be exclusive for a company or may serve to multiple companies. The client, however, has
focused on developing exclusive network of about 6000 dealers across India.
Page 622024-2025

===== PAGE 63 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Recommendations
• Short term: a) Explore alternate cost cutting measures to ensure competitive profitability as the agreement will continue for 2 more years.
• Long term: a) Work with the dealers to renew the agreement with tighter constraint on service time as it will also improve cust omer satisfaction.
b) Develop better relationship with dealers by providing the necessary support and expertise to improve their operational efficiency instead of only changing incentive.
Key Learnings
• It was critical to structure the problem to identify the right root cause. Missing the structure could lead the case in vague direction.
• Think about the entire value chain even when the client is not an end-to-end player in the market. Interactions between the client and collaborators played a key role in this case.
• It is important to explain each step with the complete thought process to keep interviewer engaged and allow the conversation to flow throughout the case.
Your client is a water purifier manufacturer in India. The client is experiencing lower profitability compared to its competitors. The client has hired you
to analyse and give recommendations.
Approach/FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Right at the beginning, it 
is important to 
understand how the client 
is defining the 
profitability.
• Preliminary questions can 
follow 3C-1P (Company, 
customer, competitor, 
product) model. 
Additional Cs and Ps 
could be explored if felt 
necessary.
• Next, as the problem 
statement focuses on 
comparison with 
competitors.
• Here the interviewer asks 
the interviewee to focus 
on revenues for large 
scale clients.
Case Facts
• Profitability defined as 
EBITDA/Revenue.
• Focus on residential 
customers only.
• No differences in 
Revenue component
• In the value chain, only 
the after-sales service 
component is higher 
than competitors.
• No differences in costs 
involved with material 
supply & method of the 
service employed.
• The warranty period 
and number of services 
per year is same as 
competitors.
• Rates of dealership fees 
are standard across all 
the competitors.
Water Purifier Manufacturer
Page 63
Profitability
Industrial Customers Residential Customers
Revenue Operating Costs
After-Sales 
Service
Storage & 
Outbound Logistics
Scheduled 
Service
Unscheduled 
Service
Dealerships
(Man) Material Method
Base Incentive Conveyance
Rate per 
Service
Fraction of 
Qualified Services
Criteria – Service 
time < 8 hrs.
Total Rate/ 
Service
Number of 
Services/Unit
Inbound 
Logistics
Raw 
Material
Manufacturing 
and QC
Sales & 
Marketing
Profitability | Cost Reduction | Industrial Sector | Moderate | McKinsey Buddy Case
2024-2025

===== PAGE 64 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a meal coupon company. It is evaluating a shift from using paper coupons to a card-
based system. It wants you to advise whether it should shift to the card-based system or not.
Great. I am not very conversant with the business model of a meal coupon company. Can you
please provide me insights into the company’s operations and how it earns profits?
Organizations give meal coupons to their employees, which the employees can use to have food at
the workplace or use it at various retail stores & restaurants. The major advantage to employees is
that they enjoy tax savings on the coupons offered to them.
Okay. So if I understand it, organizations pay XYZ cash and obtain coupons. They then distribute
these coupons among their employees, who can utilize it in the canteen or at restaurants/ retail
stores.
Yes. That’s right.
Coming back to the case statement, is the decision to shift driven by profitability or should I
consider other factors?
The major criteria for the decision would be profitability. We can examine other factors at a later
stage.
What is the major reason the company is evaluating this decision at this stage?
The company wants to improve the convenience provided to customers. The current paper
coupons is not convenient for customers.
Are the competitors launching a similar system? Or is the company the first to do so?
The company is the market leader in the space and drives the industry trends. It would be the first
to make the transition, in case it decides to do so.
Great. So, there are no competitive pressures and the main criteria for evaluating the decision is
profitability. So, I will analyze the potential increase in revenues and costs and accordingly evaluate
the decision. Does that sound acceptable?
Yes. You can proceed in that direction.
I will start with the revenues side. The primary revenue can be expressed as:
No. of corporate tie-ups * No. of employees/company * Monthly allowance
The monthly allowance I expect is driven by the tax legislation and wouldn’t undergo a change due
to the shift. The average number of employees/company also doesn’t undergo a change due to the
shift. If due to the enhanced convenience, the number of companies opting for the scheme
increase, then the revenues could increase.
The next major income item for the company is interest income. It receives cash from the
company upfront while it needs to make the payment to the retailers/ restaurants later. The
company can invest the money in the interim and earn interest on the same. With increased
convenience arising from the card system, the employees would end up spending the amount
earlier, as they are not constrained by the necessity to carry the coupons along with them. Hence,
the shift can be expected to reduce the interest income earned by the company.
That’s a good point. In the short term, the no. of corporate tie-ups isn’t expected to
increase. So, you can assume that the revenues will fall in the short term.
Great. Moving to the costs side, the major cost item would be the payment made to the retailers/
restaurants. In the current system, as its paper based, there is the possibility of duplicate coupons.
Shifting to the card system reduces this risk and results in saving.
The next major saving would be in terms of printing costs. The card system is a one-time shift and
doesn’t require any recurring expenditure. This would enable the company to substantially save on
its printing costs.
Moving to the costs of administering the card system, I want to understand how the company
proposes to run the card system. Does it propose to have separate card machine or use the
existing network?
The company plans to leverage on the existing Visa & MasterCard network which doesn’t
necessitate significant capital investment.
Great. That would also mean that there is no training costs which need to be incurred to explain
how the system works to the retailers/ restaurants. Before I summarize, I wanted to check whether
there are any cybersecurity issues which could arise due to shifting to the card system.
That’s a good point. You can assume that there are no cybersecurity issues which arise from the
shift. What is your suggestion for the company?
I think the company would save significantly on the printing costs and the administration costs.
While this could lead to a reduction in the interest income, I expect this to be compensated by
onboarding additional customers in the long run.
That’s a good analysis. But there’s one impact of the change which you are missing out on.
Sure. I will take a minute to respond. (After a minute). I think I missed a fundamental thing in the
business model understanding. Not all coupons will be utilized by the customers. So, let’s say the
company sells coupons worth INR 100 and the customers exercise coupons worth only INR 80, the
difference arising due to unutilized coupons of INR 20 adds to the profit of the company.
In case the company shifts to the card system, the no. of unutilized coupons will reduce due to
increased convenience to the customer. Also, coupons are susceptible to loss and theft, which are
also avoided in case of the card system. This could mean increase in the amount paid to customers
and thereby decrease profits. This would have a significant impact on the profits.
Great. That’s what I was looking for. Let’s assume the company goes ahead with the card system
due to the convenience factor. What measures do you suggest to plug the fall in profits?
I would divide the measures into two – a) aimed at increasing revenues and b) aimed at reducing
costs. On the revenue front, the company can evaluate whether it can analyze the data from the
card system and use it in its operations. The data analytics could be valuable for food companies and
there is potential to monetize the data.
On the cost reduction side, the company can look at ways of reducing the amount paid to retailers/
restaurants. This could be done by imposing limits on points utilized at one go, frequency of usage
and limits per retailer/ restaurant. However, this could have negative implications on the brand
image and the customer satisfaction. This should be considered before undertaking any such
measure.
That brings us to the close of the case. It was great interacting with you. Thanks!
Meal Coupon Company – Interview Transcript
Profitability | Shift in Business Model | Services | Moderate
Page 642024-2025

===== PAGE 65 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a meal coupon company. It is evaluating whether to shift from the paper-coupon system to a card-based system. Evaluate whether
the company should make the transition or not.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Interest income would 
decrease under the new 
setup leading to a 
decrease in revenue.
• On the costs side, this 
shift can result in a 
decrease in printing and 
admin costs.
• Check for cybersecurity 
issues which can arise
• Shift to this business 
model will reduce the 
number of unutilized 
coupons.
Case Facts
• Meal coupon Company 
envisaging shift from 
paper-based coupons to 
card-based system.
• Decision to be examined 
from a profitability 
perspective.
• Company would be the 
first to make this 
transition.
Meal Coupon Company
Recommendations
• Shifting to the card system would lead to increased card utilisation thereby increasing costs and simultaneously lower interest income earned by the company. 
• The decrease in interest income vs the potential addition of corporates in the long term will determine the feasibility of the transition.
• In case the company goes ahead with the card system, it could look at data analytics as a potential revenue stream to increas e profits. 
Observations / Suggestions
• In case of an unfamiliar business model, take some time to understand the business model and confirm whether there are any ga ps in your understanding. Drawing a small flowchart with 
the supplier & customer side helps in understanding the model better. 
• In a back-to-back business model, always check the flow of cash to check whether there are differences which could result in profits to the company.
Page 65
Profits
Revenues Costs
Sale of 
Coupons
Interest 
Income
Vendors/ 
Hotel Pyts
Printing
Costs
Admin
Costs
Impact
Business Model
Restaurants/ Retailers
Meal Coupon 
Company
Companies
(Customers)
Coupons
Cash Cash
Coupons
Profitability | Shift in Business Model | Services | Moderate
2024-2025

===== PAGE 66 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is an integrated steel manufacturer in India. Its current profitability is 4-5% and is higher
than the industry average. However, the client believes that there is potential to improve the
profitability further and needs your help in analysing the situation.
I would like to ask some preliminary questions. Can you please help me understand what does the
term integrated steel manufacturer mean?
The client handles end-to-end steel manufacturing processes including sourcing of raw materials
from suppliers, processing raw material to crude steel and then finished steel, and then selling it to
end customers.
How many plants does the client own and where are they located?
The client owns a single plant in central India. Also, there are no plans to expand elsewhere.
What is the final product the company is selling? Who are the end customers?
The company sells steel sheets, steel rods or hollow pipes primarily to automotive industry, pipes
industry and construction businesses. You can assume they all contribute equally in our sales.
Who are the major competitors and how are they performing?
The competitors are small local manufacturers and companies from China. They are not
performing as good as us as the client has better quality products and charges premium for it.
So, the objective is to increase the profitability. Do we have any targets in mind?
None as such. We are just exploring to check if there exists an opportunity in reducing costs as
our prices are already quite high.
Interesting. We can divide our costs primarily into raw material sourcing, manufacturing , storage
distribution, general and administrative costs.
Sounds reasonable go ahead.
Consider the first kind of cost – raw material sourcing. There are three elements involved here –
cost of raw material, alternate raw materials and supplier contracts. Can we assume that cost of
raw material cannot be changed much as iron ore is a commodity?
Yes, I think it is a fair assumption. In fact, why don’t you look into supplier contracts? Based on
discussion with the client team it is apparent that they have too many suppliers.
Sure, having too many suppliers can be problematic as it increases the cost of supervising them and
also increases the cost of raw material as there are fewer bulk deals. It also affects the supply
guarantee.
So, what do you suggest? How should we go about this?
The first step will be to ensure we have sufficient supplies available with the suppliers to meet the
client’s increased demands if we opt for supplier consolidation.
Some of the suppliers have more capacity than the clients’ needs.
Interesting. Then we should be providing incentives to the suppliers through bulk deals and
guarantee order quantity. Secondly, to ensure quality of the product we should put contractual
obligations on the suppliers to meet quality requirements and timely deliveries. Also, we can
explore alternate raw materials to bring down our costs. Do we have any information on the
quality requirements by the various industry groups – automotive, pipes and construction?
Quality requirements are quite high for automotive and construction industries. However, piping
industry doesn’t have stringent requirements.
Great. Then that implies we can use additional raw materials such as iron ore scrap from our own
plant which will bring down the raw material costs significantly.
That sounds interesting and doable.
Moving on to manufacturing, what are the current efficiencies of the plant? And what processes go
into the manufacturing of the different products – sheets, rods, and pipes?
Steel Industry – Interview Transcript
Profitability | Cost reduction | Steel | Challenging
Page 66
The current plant efficiency is greater than 95% and is above industry standards. We can explore
the processes though. The client currently prepares all three products with the same quality.
And why does the client them at same quality standards despite different market requirements?
The plant currently has only one blast furnace, which converts raw material into crude steel. There
is high set up cost associated with it and thus manufacturing settings cannot be altered.
If I hear you correctly, then there is possibility to separate the production lines for the products and
save on the costs for pipes. Is that right?
Yes. In fact, the R&D has been working on this.
Great, then we can move on to storage. Is the client facing any issues there?
Yes. The client currently has lots of inventory piled up at its warehouse.
Can you please help me understand which products currently have high inventory levels?
I cannot specify it by product. The final output is made as per the customer specifications. However,
sometimes the customers delay payments for previous orders and so, the managers decide to hold
the second delivery unless previous payment is made. This sometimes hampers customer
relations. As a result, the orders stay in warehouses for more than speculated time.
So, we should be focusing on fast payments from customers for clearing inventory levels and
improving customer relations. Is that right?
Yes. It looks like a big challenge.
What is the current credit policy for customers during purchase?
The client currently provides 30-day credit to the customers during purchase.
We can incentivize the client using 2/10 net 30 credit policy. This involves providing discounts to
customers who pay in full within 10 days from purchase. As a result, the debt collection can be sped
up and also the demand variability will reduce. Thus, clearing inventories. Also, it will be a win-win
strategy as customers also get 2 percent discounts and thus can reduce their purchase costs.
I think it is good suggestion.
Lastly, can you help me understand the current distribution process?
I think it is optimized and has not further scope for improvement. Let us skip this part.
Great. So, I will quickly summarize our findings and recommendations for the same.
Sure. Go ahead.
The client is trying to solve for profitability. We analyzed the steel manufacturing value chain for the
client, involving raw material sourcing, manufacturing and R&D, storage, and distribution. We found
three problem areas:
1. The suppliers are fragmented
2. Current manufacturing process produces high quality products only and changing settings to
adjust to product quality is not possible
3. There is inventory pile up at the warehouse due to issues with credit collection
It is recommended that the client makes the following changes in its process to reduce its costs:
1. Supplier consolidation and contract refining for timely orders, bulk deals and stringent quality
requirements
2. Using scrap as raw material
3. R&D focus on new methodologies for improved manufacturing line
4. Revising credit policy to 2/10 net 30 credit terms
Thanks! That would be all.
2024-2025

===== PAGE 67 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a steel manufacturer who wants to increase its profits. It wants you to figure out the key problem areas and solve for the same.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Improve profitability 
by focusing on costs.
• Value chain elements for 
manufacturing should be 
focused on.
• Supplier consolation and 
alternate raw materials 
can help lower costs.
• Separate production lines 
for the three products to 
help reduce manufacturing 
costs.
Case Facts
• Client handles end to 
end steel manufacturing 
process.
• 3 types of products 
sold – sheets, rods and 
pipes.
• 3 types of clients –
automotive, piping and 
construction industries.
• No major competition.
• Client’s business focus 
is on quality products
• Only one plant in 
central India.
• 30-day credit policy for 
customers.
Steel Industry
Recommendations
• Supplier consolidation must be conducted, and supplier contracts should be revised for timely orders, bulk deals and stringen t quality requirements.
• Consider using scrap as a raw material.
• Focus R&D on developing new methodologies for a new and improved manufacturing line.
• Revise credit policy to 2/10 net 30 credit terms.
Observations / Suggestions
• It is important to understand every factor that can affect a particular cost.
• Steel industry related terminologies should be fully understood to be able to produce recommendations.
Page 67
Raw  
Material Storage
Cost of Raw Material
Alternate
Raw Materials
Supplier Contracts
Machinery
Technology
Labor Hours
Capacity Utilization
Inventory Age
Storage Condition
Transport to
Customer Sites
Supplier 
contracts
Profits
Revenue Costs
Raw Material Manufacturing 
& R&D
Storage Distribution
Profitability | Cost reduction | Steel | Challenging
2024-2025

===== PAGE 68 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is an Indian commercial bank which has observed a decline in its profitability in the last
18-24 months. You have been roped in to identify probable cause(s) and give suitable
recommendations.
Alright. Just so I’ve understood the problem correctly, our objective is to identify the cause of
decline in profitability and suggest measures to reverse it?
Yes, you can proceed with that objective.
To get a more nuanced idea of the context, I have a few questions I’d want answers to. Is it fair to
define a commercial bank as one that offers services to the public and to companies?
That is a fair understanding
Thank you. Could you offer me some more details about the bank’s clientele: is it a public or
private bank? And what is the rough urban-rural composition?
The bank in question is a leading player in the private sector. Also, most of the bank’s business is
from urban areas, and in rural areas it has a more muted presence.
Alright. What is the magnitude of decline that we are looking at? Also, are the other banks in the
country also faced with a similar situation?
The dip in profitability has been recorded around 2 percentage points. Most competing players in
the industry have a seen a steady growth during this period.
Interesting. This leads me to hypothesize that there’s some systemic issue specific to our bank. I’d
like to dive into the two major components of profits: revenues and costs. Is there any particular
head you’d want me to look into first?
Before you do that, could you help me understand the major cost and revenue heads for a typical
commercial bank?
Sure. The major revenue sources of a bank would be namely: interest income, transaction fees &
charges and other tertiary services (like forex, advisory etc.). Investments could also be a major
source of revenue. The costs, on the other hand, can broadly be segmented into two major
buckets: interest expended (on deposits) and operational costs.
Do we have any numbers with respect to these components that could be useful for my analysis?
Is there any other cost head that you’d want to consider, especially in the Indian context?
Oh, yes. I missed out on the Provisioning and contingency cost, which must be a fair portion of the
total costs.
Correct. So, to answer one of your previous questions, our revenues have grown in line with our
projections, but our costs have grown significantly.
Sure. So, breaking the various cost components further down, interest costs can be subdivided into
interest expended on corporate deposits and interest expended on retail deposits. The operational
costs could be divided into fixed and variable expenses. Fixed expenses would comprise of rent,
payroll expenses, utilities, other administrative costs, etc. The variable portion would comprise of
raw materials, stationery, commissions, marketing and customer acquisition expenses, etc.
Good, that’s a fair analysis of the costs. It has been recorded that our interest expenses on retail
deposits has shot up disproportionately.
Understood. So, my understanding of the situation is that the average cost of funds for the banks
has increased.
Yes. That’s a fair understanding of the scenario.
Looking at how a typical commercial bank in India accepts retail deposits, two things come to mind:
demand deposits like current/savings account and term deposits like fixed or recurring deposits.
Now, term deposits typically enjoy a much higher rate of interest as compared to demand
deposits, thereby meaning they are a costlier source of fund for the bank.
Breaking it down further, there are two probable reasons for the increase in cost of funds: a)
Change in the mix of deposits b) Increase in the rate of interest offered.
My hypotheses is that there’s been a change in the mix of deposits with the bank, in favor of term
deposits. At this point, is it fair to assume that the average deposit per customer for demand
deposits as well as term deposits have remained unchanged?
You can assume that to be true.
Okay. So, do we have any information about the mix of deposits and their respective rate of growth
over the last 6-8 quarters?
Our demand deposits have grown by 3% while our term deposits have grown by 12%
Interesting. So, there appears to be a clear change in the balance of the ratio of demand deposits to
term deposits. Assuming that the average deposit per customer has remained unchanged, the rate
of growth in deposits is a function of: New customers added (-) Attrition in existing customer base.
Do we have information on these numbers?
There has been no attrition in customers holding term deposits. The growth can purely be
attributed to new customers. However, there’s been a 10% attrition in the existing customer base
as far as demand deposits are concerned.
Alright. Understood. I’ll now try to understand the reasons behind demand deposits. These are the
factors that come to my mind: safety, convenience, economical, mandated, access to credit.
You can focus on the short-term credit aspect.
Alright. Let me try and understand the short-term credit access facilities associated with savings and
current bank a/c. The major ones would be bank overdraft facility, trade credit and credit cards. Is
there any head you’d want me to delve into first?
Right. So, our analysis shows that the dip is attributable to a particular class of clients: ones who
hold Credit Cards against their Current or Savings bank A/C.
Interesting. So, trying to understand the requirements of a typical credit card customer, I’d like to
break a holder’s journey down into Pre – During – Post. So, for any cycle (monthly/quarterly), the
pre phase comprises of the payment of dues for the previous cycle and ends with the initiation of
the new billing period. The during phase includes the period during which customers use the credit
card – online or offline, shopping, withdrawals, lounge access to name a few. The post phase starts
with the generation of bill by the company followed by the intimation of the bill amount, reminders,
payment and ends with the confirmation of payment.
Have we been able to understand from our former customers as to which part of the process were
they unsatisfied about?
Yes, we have. So, the pain point of our customers have been Reminders. They often complaint that
they end up missing the due date (and therefore pay hefty penalty) due to our inefficient reminder
mechanism. Give me three recommendations to resolves this issue & prevent attrition
Sure. I would suggest the following:
• Shift from traditional methods of reminders like e-mail, text to new age mediums like WhatsApp
• Offer auto-debit facilities to customers where ones holding Savings/Current A/C with our bank
can give standing instructions for automatic payment
• Incentivize early payment of dues – some sort of pre-payment (before bill generation)
Thank you, that would be all.
Banking – Interview Transcript
Profitability | Cost Reduction | BFSI | Moderate
Page 682024-2025

===== PAGE 69 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is an Indian commercial bank who has seen a decline in its profitability. It wants you to identify probable cause(s) and offer 
suitable recommendations.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Provisioning and contingency 
would be an important cost 
head when it comes to 
banking sector
• Banking sector specific costs 
such as interest costs, NPAs 
should be focused on.
• Costs are high on account of 
increased average cost of 
funds.
• Visible attrition from a 
particular class of customers
• Understand the customer 
journey for credit cards
Case Facts
• Decline in profitability of the 
commercial bank in the 
private sector
• Decline since last 18-24 
months
• Major presence in urban 
areas
• 2% decline in profitability vs 
competitors growing steadily
• Problem is not specific to 
any branch or geography
• Increase in costs, revenue 
growth in line
• Increase interest expenses 
on retail deposits
Banking
Recommendations
• Shift from traditional methods of reminders like e-mail, text to new age mediums like WhatsApp.
• Offer auto-debit facilities to customers where ones holding Savings/Current A/C with our bank can give standing instructions forautomatic payment. Incentivize early payment of outstanding amounts.
Observations / Suggestions
• It is important to have a fair understanding of the way a typical bank operates, its major sources of revenue and its cost heads.
• An idea of nuanced banking concepts like Net Interest Margin or NPAs creates a favorable impression in the eyes of the interviewer.
• An understanding of the purpose of holding a savings account or a credit card is helpful.
• It is important to observe the customer journey (in case of Credit Cards, here) at a granular level or the issue could easilybe overlooked.
Page 69
Retail 
Deposits
Profits
Revenue Costs
Interest on 
Deposits
Operational 
Costs
Provisioning 
Costs (NPAs)
Corporate 
Deposits
Demand 
Deposits
Term 
Deposits
Pre PostDuring
Bill 
Generation
POST
Invoice 
Commn.
Query 
Redressal Reminder Payment Confirmation
Safety Convenience Economical Mandated Access to 
Credit
Trade Credit Bank O/D Credit Card
Interest 
Income
Txn. 
Fees VAS
Credit Card
Profitability | Cost Reduction | BFSI | Moderate
2024-2025
Click here for 
Panorama Report!

===== PAGE 70 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a restaurant owner. It has been experiencing a decline in profits. It wants you to
analyse why?
Since when has the client been seeing decline in its profits? Also, do we have the magnitude of
decline?
The client has been seeing decline is profits for the past one year, but there has been a significant
decline for the past three months.
Is it only the client’s restaurant which has seen the decline in profits or other restaurants in the
area have also seen a declines?
Other restaurants have also seen some dip in their profits, but the client has been significantly
impacted.
Now I’d like to understand more about our client. What type of a restaurant is it? And where
exactly is it located?
The client has one high-end multi-cuisine restaurant located in a high footfall area of Agra.
Due to the Taj Mahal, Agra attracts a lot tourists. I’d like to understand the type of customers that
visit the restaurant. Are they locals or tourists?
This is a fair observation. The customers are mainly tourists, and you can consider them to be
international tourists.
Got it. The decline in profits could be due to increase in costs or decrease in revenue or a
combination of the both. Do we have an idea which side the problem lies?
The revenues have declined significantly, while the costs have declined marginally.
Since, revenues have seen a major decline, let’s first understand the reasons for its decline. A
restaurant can have multiple revenue streams including dine-in, take-away and delivery. It can offer
both food and beverages including alcoholic and non-alcoholic. Is our client into all of these
services. Has any one of these services observed a greater decline than others?
The client only has dine-in restaurant services and does not provide alcoholic beverages.
Okay. Has the average number of customers being served at the restaurant in a day reduced or
the average amount spent per customer has decreased?
The average amount spent per customer has not changed but the number of customers visiting the
restaurant has decreased.
The decline could be because of a lower demand or the client having supply constraints and not
being able to fulfill the demand.
The client has been able to cater to all the customers who have visited its restaurant.
The issue lies in the reduction of demand then. The average number of customers visiting in a unit
time can be seen as:
Total number of tourists visiting India * % tourists visiting Agra * % visiting the client’s restaurant.
The problem could lie in any of these parts.
The total number of tourist visiting India and % of those who visited the client’s restaurant, both
have declined.
This is interesting. Let’s first look at why tourist visiting India have decreased. This decrease could
be either due to a change in the International perception about India, increase in processing hassles
such as visa approvals or change in preferences of the tourists due their country’s economic
reasons or increased availability of alterative options.
With the current slowdown internationally, the international tourism market has seen a decline
and India has been affected by it too. Now can you look at why the % of tourists visiting the client’s
restaurant has decreased?
To understand this, I would like to look at the customer journey through the process of dining. For
this, I would like to divide the journey into three parts. The first part of the journey will start with
the decision to eating food till reaching the restaurant. The second part will include the experience
inside the restaurant and the third part will include the journey after exiting the restaurant.
Sure, please go ahead.
To finalize the client’s restaurant to eat, the customer needs to be ‘aware’ about the
restaurant. Reviews on TripAdvisor like sites, or by food bloggers, along side the promotion by the
restaurant itself are the primary sources of information. Many tourist also ask for recommendations
from their friends, travel agents and from the tourist guides around the place.
The tourist will then check the price of the restaurant to ensure ‘affordability’. Finally, once the
restaurant has been decided, the tourist will head towards the restaurant. The restaurant should be
‘accessible’. Mismatch in location from google maps, change in routes or route blocks due to
construction activities, difficulty in parking spaces etc. could negatively impact the tourist's decision
to visit the restaurant. Do we know is there any problem here?
Yes. A few months back, the restaurant decided to reduce the commission of the tourist guides
because of which these guides have now started recommending our competitor's restaurants to the
tourists. You can now move to the next phase of the journey.
Interesting. This can potentially explain why the costs also decreased, but we’ll look into it later.
Once, the customers reach the restaurant, there may be issues with the – 1) waiting time, 2) the
seating arrangement once seated, 3) presentation and design of the menu, 4) cutlery and the other
amenities, 5) service by the staff and their attitude, and 6) general ambience of the place. Has there
been changes in any of these?
Can you look at the ambience part in more detail? What all would it entail?
Sure. The ambience to a restaurant is aided by the features inside the restaurant like the music,
fragrance, visual appeals of the paintings, the overall décor etc. The view from a restaurant also adds
to the ambience, used by roof-top cafes, sea-facing restaurants etc. Here, a view of Taj Mahal can be
an added experience to the customers.
That’s great. A building construction started three months back which has blocked the view of Taj
Mahal from the client's restaurant. This has deterred many customers. Can you quickly also look at
the last part of your journey?
Once the customer has exited the restaurant, she may avail a service from near the restaurant
including local shopping or visiting a sweet shop. She may have to take a transport mode to visit
another place. The restaurant may engage in loyalty programs as well. However, since tourist visits
are generally a one-time visit, loyalty program doesn’t seem to be important here. Can you suggest
if any of these has had any changes in recent times?
Outside the restaurant was a famous paanwaala shop which got closed due to the sad demise of its
owner. This has also impacted few customers. Can you give some recommendations now?
Since, blocking of Taj Mahal’s view is the major reason for the decline in revenue, the restaurant can
explore if relocation is possible, though that would be tough. While continuing with the same
location, the restaurant can provide differentiated ambience with local Agra’s feel, provide value-
added services, and include paan in its menu. We will have to see why the tourist guide
commissions were reduced. If increasing it is possible, that could be done or alternatively, non-
monetary incentives can be provided to these guides.
That’s great. Thank you.
Restaurant – Interview Transcript
Profitability | Revenue decline | F&B | Challenging
Page 702024-2025

===== PAGE 71 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Approach/ Framework
Your client is a restaurant owner who is facing a decline in profits. It wants you to figure out the reason for the same.
Interviewee Notes
• Since the competition is 
also facing decline in 
profits, it is likely to be an 
industry wide issue. But 
higher decline  with the 
client suggests client 
specific issues as well. 
• Before proceeding ahead 
with the decrease in 
revenue, it is important to 
understand if it is a demand 
or supply side issue. 
• Specifics about the Agra 
city should be kept in mind 
to customize the 
arguments. 
Restaurant 
Recommendations
• Since the Taj Mahal has been obstructed from view, the hotel can provide differentiated ambience with local Agra’s feel, provide value added services and open a paan counter to try 
replacing the paan shop experience.
• Since there has been a decrease in offline advertising through agents, we can look at our increase in offline advertising thr ough tie ups with hotels, maintaining good rating on food apps etc. 
Also, we can have strategic advertisements by placing our placards near prominent areas in Agra.
Suggestions
• While moving from one phase of the customer journey to another (say from pre phase to the during phase), one should confirm f rom the interviewer if she has covered all the aspects. This 
ensures that one doesn’t move back and forth the phases of the customer journey. 
• Structure the recommendation and do not give a laundry list of suggestions. 
Page 71
Profitability | Revenue decline | F&B | Challenging
Profits
Revenue Costs
Average no. of 
Customers
Average spent 
per Customer
Annual 
Tourists
visiting 
India
% tourists 
visiting 
Agra 
% visiting 
the Client’s 
Restaurant
Changed 
Indian 
Perception
Process 
Issues
X X
Change in 
Tourist 
Pref.
Economic 
Downfall
Increase in 
Alternatives
Pre
 During
 Post
Online Offline
Posters, 
Agents
Tourist 
Guides
Menu
Internal External
Sound from 
Outside
View of Taj 
Mahal
Service Quality
Entry & waitingAffordability
Accessibility
Awareness
Ambience
Loyalty Program
Transport
Options outside
2024-2025
Click here for 
Panorama Report!

===== PAGE 72 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Seat Manufacturer – Interview Transcript
Profitability | Cost Reduction | Manufacturing | Easy to Moderate
Page 72
Your client is a seat manufacturing company. They have hired you to figure how to reduce their
total cost of operations.
I would like to know a bit more about the company. Where is it located? Is it solely into
manufacturing? Who are its customers?
It is in India and has factory down South. Its customers consist of 2-wheeler auto manufacturers. It
does have a salesforce to maintain relations with auto-companies but is primarily a manufacturing
entity.
Oh! Approximately what share of the market does it command?
It is actually a local plant which supplies only to automobile manufacturing factories located in the
same SEZ and it’s the only locally available manufacturer.
So, our client is company which manufactures seats for two-wheeler vehicles and is located in an
SEZ where their customers are also present. They want me to come up with cost-cutting
mechanisms. May I ask why?
With the slowdown in the auto-sector, they have been forced by their customers to reduce the
prices at which they sell their seats. Also keep in mind that the company has been trying to cut
costs on its own.
Makes sense. Auto-manufacturers generally have higher negotiating power over their suppliers. So,
the way I am going to approach the problem is to look at each stage of the value chain and identify
the cost heads. Once I have done that, I’ll try to come up with ways in which we can cut costs for
the company. Before I drill down further, do we have any specific cost-reduction targets?
Go ahead with your approach. Though there is no specific cost-reduction target, remember that
your incentives are tied to the percentage reduction in costs you affect.
Okay! I have broadly broken the cost heads down into Raw materials costs, production and R&D
costs, storage costs, distribution costs and sales costs. Production costs would include variable
costs of processing & fixed costs of factory overheads. Sales would also include the same. Do you
want me to focus on any specific cost head?
What do you think you should focus on?
I would look for avenues for cost reduction which comprise of a majority of my costs.
For something like a seat for a 2-wheeler, the customers probably send the design specifications to
our client. In addition, the client is a local player. Both above reasons gives me confidence that the
R&D costs are a small percentage or are non-existent. Outbound logistics & are likely to be a small
percentage of the total costs since our client is local. Sales also probably contributes to a low
percentage of the costs as he is the sole manufacturer and salespeople mostly act as liaisons. Most
of the cost is likely to be concentrated in the Raw Materials & Production costs. At this point I
would like to clarify about the production process . How exactly does it work?
Good. You were right in identifying that the RM cost is the highest. The seat is made up of three
components, the plastic frame, the foam and the rubber covering. The plastic frame is
manufactured in house. The raw material i.e., plastic goes through an injection molding process to
make the plastic frame. The foam is cut & set on top & the seat is covered with rubber and
stitched. The suppliers of raw materials are also in the same city and hence you can neglect
inbound logistics costs as well.
Got it. I would first like to focus on raw materials costs. The total cost of raw material/seat can be
written as (Writes Equation). Hence, we can either reduce price, reduce wastage, or the designed
quantity of raw material for the seat. For reduction in price, we can negotiate with our suppliers to
reduce prices…(interrupted)
Don’t you feel the company would have already tried negotiating raw material prices? Keep in mind
that you need to come up with something the client hasn’t thought of yet.
Okay. Presently, one of the ways in which one can reduce the prices is by using cheaper but low-
quality raw material. However, I will not recommend that since it will cause a significant loss to
customer experience for a marginal benefit in the cost. Besides we can look at:
1. Reducing material usage: Generally, 2-wheeler seats are stylized to create ergonomic seating,
which might result in wastage during the process. Instead, we can design foam elements in such a
way that there are straight cuts, to optimize the material.
2. Changing base design: For reducing the amount of material and wastage, we can work with our
customer to implement some design changes which will result in cost savings.
3. Reducing other wastes: For plastic frames we can reduce the thickness of the seat. In injection
molding there is certain amount of wastage associated with each plastic frame in form of support
structure. If the design of the mold includes manufacturing of multiple frames at the same time, we
can reduce the wastage per seat.
4. Saving on support materials: Instead of stitching the rubber material onto the foam, we can
marginally save on the seam material by using an adhesive to stick the rubber covering on the foam.
Good, some of the above measures were not implemented by the client yet and will be useful for
them. Do you have any long-term measures?
To constantly keep costs low, the workforce in the factory must be motivated to achieve high
productivity and low costs. Also, factories traditionally have had a bureaucratic structure with
significant managerial overhead costs. However, the company I interned for had managed to have
very low managerial overheads in its factories due to its HR policies. Further, to reduce labour
costs, the company may also explore automation as an option.
Oh! Can you briefly outline how you would approach the design of HR policies for this client?
We have already identified that the firm’s objective is to reduce costs. In designing the HR policies, I
would look at each of the subsystems in place and figure out how to modify the policies such that it
will result in an increase in productivity. The subsystems would include Recruitment, Training,
Compensation, Incentives, Performance Appraisal, Promotions and Retention. In each subsystem,
we can check for whether they are geared towards the objective and modify them in case they are
not. E.g., we can have a suggestion scheme with a monetary reward in case the suggestion results in
significant savings. Should I go ahead and analyze the system?
No that’s okay. Let’s wrap up the case here. You did well. Thank you.
Thank you, It was a pleasure interacting with you.
2024-2025

===== PAGE 73 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
The client is a seat manufacturing company. They have hired you to figure out how to reduce their total cost of operations.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Identify the biggest 
buckets and prioritize 
them.
• Client is trying to reduce 
costs on their own. Need 
to come up with
innovative solutions.
• Client is the only local 
manufacturer and has a 
competitive advantage.
• Auto-manufacturers have 
significant negotiating 
power. The client’s 
company may not.
• Enquire about the 
production process from 
end to end.
Seat Manufacturer
Recommendations
• The client should take the following short-term measures for each of the materials:
• Plastic frame – Reduce wastage by changing to a multi-mold setup, reduce amount by reducing thickness.
• Foam – Reduce wastage by implementing straight cuts.
• Rubber Covering – Stick instead of stitch to reduce wastage.
• In the long term, the client should implement changes in its HR policies to continue with a long-term low-cost strategy. Also, automation for reducing labour cost in long term.
Observations / suggestions
• The interviewee should quickly identify & clarify the cost heads of the company & then be able to prioritize them.
• Interviewee does identify some key elements of the strategy of the client i.e. low cost, low negotiating power. It would have been a good idea to state them up-front.
Key Takeaways 
• Be innovative in your solutions, but also be structured. 80:20 rule was used particularly well when each cost head was evalua ted; value chain to evaluate costs.
Case Facts
• Seat manufacturer for 
automobile.
• Located in South Indian 
SEZ.
• Primarily a manufacturing 
entity.
• Customers are 2-Wheeler 
auto manufacturers.
• Reduced prices due to 
slow down in auto sector.
• Objective: Reduce costs as 
much as possible.
Costs
Plastic Frame
Foam
Rubber Covering
Raw Material Manufacturing & 
R&D Storage Sales & Distribution
Cost of Raw Material
Amount of RM per Seat
Wastage per Seat
Profitability | Cost Reduction | Manufacturing | Easy to Moderate
Click here for 
Panorama Report!
2024-2025 Page 73

===== PAGE 74 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Our client ABC Batteries, is a battery manufacturing firm whose profits have been declining in the
past 6 months. You have been approached to identify the core issue behind this and suggest a few
recommendations.
I would like to clarify a few things before analyzing the problem. Firstly, I would like to ask more
about the products our client sells.
The client sells 2 kinds of batteries – AA/AAA type batteries which are used in remotes and other
electronic appliances; and D-cell batteries which are used in torches.
Okay, is the decline in profits in both kinds of batteries?
D-cell battery sales have been declining.
Okay, thank you. I would like to understand more about where our client lies in the value chain.
You said that the client manufacturers batteries, but are they involved in other processes of the
value chain?
Yes, ABC manufactures batteries, but they also employ sales executives who reach out to regional
distributors and wholesalers who finally give the batteries to the retailers for them to sell. These
retailers are the local electrical shops, as we see in an Indian neighborhood.
So, from your statement, my understanding is that ABC sells all over India, but do they also sell in
other markets?
We sell exclusively in India, but what do you think our markets would be?
For the AA and AAA batteries, I believe the market would be pan-India. But since the profit
problem pertains to D-cell batteries I would like to focus on that. Since D-cell batteries are used in
torches, I believe their market would be geographically sparse. I have frankly seen very few torches
in urban areas. Maybe they are more predominantly used in Tier-II cities and rural areas.
Yes, that’s correct!
I would also like to ask whether the decline in profits is an industry-wide issue or not. Meanwhile,
could you also tell me more about the competitive landscape in the industry?
For the D-cell battery, there are 2 major players in the industry. ABC has 30% market share and
the competitor, XYZ has 50% and the rest of the market is fragmented. The client is the only one
facing the issue, while XYZ has actually seen an increase in profits in the same time period.
Interesting! This might signify that our customers are switching over to our competitor. For my last
question, I would like to understand whether the profit decline is across the market or specific to
certain geographies.
The decline is across India; However, some geographies are more affected than others
Thank you for all the information. I would like about half a minute to gather my thoughts and
analyse the issue at hand. I believe the decline in profits can be due to a decrease in revenue or an
increase in costs. Do we have any information of this change vis-à-vis our competitor?
Our costs remain constant and our revenues for D-cell in this period have declined.
I understand that the revenues is the product of average selling price and the number of units sold.
Do we have any data on this?
You don’t need any data; You may analyse the case qualitatively.
Do we have information as to which of these entities has decreased in the past 6 months?
As mentioned earlier, we haven’t had any changes in our business, but the number of units sold
have decreased.
I believe that this could be due to 2 factors, one could be due to a decrease in demand from the
end consumer, the second could be due to a supply side issue – either ABC is unable to supply the
necessary units to the retailer or the units are lost midway in transportation. Since you said
Battery Manufacturer – Interview Transcript
Profitability | Consumer Durables | Moderate
Page 74
ABC hasn’t changed anything in their business, I believe they are sending the right number of units
to distributors.
Yes, that is absolutely correct. In fact, it is the customer demand which has decreased.
Oh, that’s interesting! To analyse why this decrease might have happened, I would like to look into
the overall purchase cycle for the end consumer of D-cell batteries. I would like to take a few
moments to structure the same.
Sounds good, go ahead!
In the purchase cycle, I would like to consider 3 major steps influencing the customer’s decision to
purchase. Pre-purchase, during purchase and post purchase factors. Sir, I believe the need of the
product would have not changed, mainly because the issue is specific to our client and not industry
wide. Also, I’d like to ask here if ABC is any different in terms of product features and price with
respect to competitors.
This makes sense. ABC actually has comparable product specifications and post-purchase benefits.
They sell at a 5% lower retail price as compared to our competitors. But this has been historically
maintained the same.
So, even when our competitor is higher priced, it is still able to capture our customers. Out of
these, would you want me to focus on any aspect where the main problem may lie?
So, I’d like you to focus mainly on the awareness of the product
For awareness, I would like to look at 2 different types of customers.
1. Those who consider battery to be a commodity & a low involvement product and is not aware of
the battery brand. These people usually rely on the retailer push to finalize the purchase decision.
2. Those aware of the battery brand through television, hoardings advertisements word of mouth
feedback or past experience.
Excellent, in one of the major markets, our sales executives have left the company and new
employees are facing trust issues with the retailers, because of which the retailer is pushing the
competitor’s product to the unaware customer. Moreover, in the past 1 year, the competitor has
launched a division of torches pan-India, which are sold bundled with their D-cell batteries. Thus,
customers are aware of their brand and repurchase the same type of cells on expiry. Now you can
suggest some recommendations on how to resolve this.
We have found 2 issues.
1. In order to tackle the competitor’s entry into the torch market, ABC can either launch its own
division of torches, if it is feasible operationally and financially, or can partner with existing torch
brands to market their products bundled with ABC batteries. ABC can also advertise the D-cell
battery to be price competitive and compatible with all brands of torches..
2. In order to build trust with the regional retailers, ABC can focus on hiring local experienced
salespeople for the role; and also reach out to the Key Opinion Leaders of the markets to build
credibility. For the retailers, ABC can construct cash or trade discount schemes, or have trust
building and community workshops.
Your recommendations seem sound! You can now synthesize the case.
2024-2025

===== PAGE 75 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is ABC Batteries, a battery manufacturing firm whose profits have been declining in the past 6 months. You have been
approached to identify the core issue behind this and suggest recommendations.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• AA/AAA used in remotes, 
electronic appliances.
• D-cell used in torches, 
more prevalent in tier II 
cities and rural areas.
• Market doing better, so 
company specific issue.
• Business hasn’t changed, 
so costs, price and supply 
hasn’t changed.
Case Facts
• Client sells 2 kinds of batteries –
AA/AAA and D-cell; profit 
decline in the latter only.
• Along with manufacturing, 
employ sales executives to reach 
out to regional distributors and 
wholesalers, they finally give 
batteries to retailers to sell.
• Decline in units sold across 
India, some geographies more 
affected
• XYZ has 50% market share in D-
cell market, ABC has 30% share, 
rest fragmented.
• Comparable product 
specifications and post-purchase 
benefits, retail price 5% lower 
for ABC.
Average Selling 
Price
Battery Manufacturer
Recommendations
To tackle competitor’s entry into the torch market by:
• Launching own division of torches if operationally, financially feasible; else, partner with existing torch brands.
• ABC can advertise D-cell battery to be price competitive and compatible with all brands of torches T.
• Building trust with regional retailers.
• Focus on hiring local experienced salespeople, reach out to Key Opinion Leaders of the markets to build credibility.
• Construct cash, trade discount schemes for retailers; have trust building and community workshops.
Observations / Suggestions
• For such cases wherein the demand has been decreasing, it is always better to know about the competitors before delving into the need, awareness, etc.
• When awareness is the issue, it is better to ask about the sales and distribution process and know about the nuances of the same in the market.
Page 75
Profit
No. of Units 
Sold
Revenue Costs
Supply Demand
Awareness Affordability Customer 
Experience
x
Accessibility
Increased
Marketing by 
Competitor
Reduced 
Retail Push
Need
Profit
No. of Units 
Sold
Revenue
Demand
Awareness Accessibility
Increased
Marketing by 
Competitor
Reduced 
Retail Push
Profitability | Consumer Durables | Moderate
2024-2025

===== PAGE 76 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is ZoomCar, and they are facing declining revenues. They have hired you to help them.
Before diving into the case, I would like to know more about the client and the issue at hand.
Sure, go ahead.
My understanding of ZoomCar is that it is a self-drive car rental company. They rent out cars to
customers and charge a fee for the same. Is that understanding correct or is the client in another
business?
Yes, your understanding is correct.
Can you help me with the revenue streams of the client?
Since you are aware of ZoomCar, can you take a shot?
So, there are 3 models that I am aware of. First is renting for short trips. Within this, they either
rent with fuel costs included or excluded. The booking is for a fixed duration and distance. Excess
duration and distance are chargeable along with a penalty. They also collect a security deposit at
the time of booking. The other is long-term bookings, i.e., 6 months or so. Is that correct?
Yes, that’s right.
Since when has the client been facing this issue?
For the past 4 months.
Who are our major competitors, and have they also been facing similar issues?
We have 3 other competitors, and they are not facing any such similar decline.
ZoomCar operates in major Indian cities. So, is this issue particular to a geography or is it being
faced across all locations?
The company is facing it across India.
Before diving into the case, can I take some time to structure my thoughts?
Sure.
As we discussed, there are three revenue streams – long-term bookings and short trips, with fuel
and without fuel, so do we know which stream is facing this issue?
It is being faced across all but focus on the short trips case as that is the major revenue driver.
Okay. So, revenue is a function of (No. of cars x Utilization Rate x Average trip revenue) + any
penalties. Do we have information if we are facing a decline in any one of these?
What exactly do you mean by utilization rate?
This is basically the number of bookings.
Okay, in that case, the utilization rate has come down.
Understood. So, this could be driven either from the demand side or the supply side. Do we know
which of it is the case?
Yes, we do. But can we look at both of them in detail starting with supply side?
Sure. So, in supply side, since the number of cars has remained the same, we might not be able to
provide the cars to customers. This could be driven by less uptime for the cars i.e., they are under
maintenance for a longer period. However, it is unlikely that this is happening at the same time
at all the locations. Also, there might be issues with our portal which makes it difficult for
customers to hire a car.
Yes, that’s a good observation. But we aren’t facing any such issue. Let’s look at the demand side.
Sure. On the demand side, we could be facing lower demand from new customers or repeat
customers. Do we have any details here?
It is across both these segments.
Okay. Just give me a moment to structure my thoughts further.
Go ahead.
ZoomCar – Interview Transcript
Profitability | Revenue Decline | Services | Moderate
Page 76
Next, I would like to divide the problem into 4 potential issues to understand it further. I will divide
the problem into awareness, availability, accessibility, and acceptability. Since other competitors are
not facing this issue and the number of cars have remained the same, I don’t think awareness and
availability are a problem. Is that a fair assumption?
Yes, go on.
Under accessibility, I would look at affordability, the booking process and car delivery. Lastly, in
acceptability, I would look at quality of car, customer’s overall experience during the ride, car drop
and refund of security deposit. Do we know if we are facing any issues under any of these buckets,
or would you like me to look at them individually?
That is good. We are facing an issue with acceptability.
Sure. I will go ahead with acceptability. Has there been any change in the outbound marketing effort
or has there been any negative publicity in terms of reviews, that we have observed in the last 4
months?
Yes, that has been the case. There have been a lot of negative reviews that are being posted on
various social media platforms.
So, this explains the decline in the bookings from both new customers and repeat customers. Do
we know what these negative reviews are about?
Can you list out the possible reasons and then we can discuss further?
Sure. Since the reviews are posted by existing customers, I would like to analyse the customer
journey. For this, I would like to divide this into pre, during and post-journey. Does that sound
good?
Yes, go ahead.
Under the pre-journey bucket, we can look at the car booking process. This would involve
exploring issues with the platform for booking i.e., website/app, platform accessibility, sign-up
process, account verification, user-interface, pick-up locations/car drop facility and payment options.
Do you think I have missed anything?
No, this looks good to me. Let’s move to the next bucket.
Under the journey part, I will look at issues with the behaviour of the employee delivering the car,
trip start procedure, quality of the car (AC, power windows, seats, noise etc.), any deviations from
the stated fuel levels, breakdowns and subsequent assistance, drop location/car pickup and
behaviour of employee picking up the car.
Okay, let move on.
Lastly, in the post journey phase, I will look at incorrect charges for damage/fuel, other hidden
charges and, timeline and mode of refund of security deposit.
That’s great. This is where the company is receiving the negative reviews. They have not been able
to refund the security deposit on time which is leading to a lot of social media backlash. Can you
suggest some recommendations to counter this issue?
Sure. I want to divide the recommendations into short-term and long-term. In the short term, we
should lower the security deposit and clearly communicate this change across all platforms.
Additionally, improving transparency around the refund process and offering the option to receive
refunds as Zoom credits could enhance customer satisfaction and encourage repeat bookings.
Long-term suggestions would be upgrading our booking platform to provide a smoother user
experience, which could drive higher conversion rates. Additionally, forming partnerships with e-
commerce platforms to offer discount vouchers or cashback options will add value for customers
while helping the company save costs. For example, we can strike a deal that we get Rs. 1000
coupons for Rs. 900, effectively leading to 10% savings.
Is there anything else you would want me to look at?
That’s all, thank you and all the best.
2024-2025

===== PAGE 77 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
You client is ZoomCar and they are facing declining revenues. They have hired you to help them. 
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Clarify probable revenue 
streams.
• Rule out issues which 
seem unlikely to occur 
across India 
simultaneously.
• Split recommendations 
into short-term and long-
term.
Case Facts
• Client has been facing 
declining revenues for 4 
months.
• 3 other major 
competitors, none of 
which are facing this 
problem.
• Problem all across India.
• Lower demand for both 
new and repeat 
customers.
ZoomCar
Recommendations
• Short-term: reduce security deposit amount; extend refund timeline and mention this explicitly on the app; offer ZoomCar credits instantly to be used for further bookings for refund.
• Long-term: Look at other lines of credit or raise additional funding; optimise cost structure; partner with e-commerce sites to offer coupons/vouchers to customers.
Observations / Suggestions
• The candidate was expected to have some idea about the possible revenue generators for ZoomCar.
• The candidate used the term ‘utilisation’ without explaining what it meant and could have elaborated on their terminology.
• The interviewer asked the candidate to explore all buckets at several points; the candidate used this opportunity to use prior information given to rule out possible issues.
Page 77
Profitability | Revenue Decline | Services | Moderate
Post JourneyDuring 
Journey
Before 
Journey
Negative Feedback
Revenues
Avg. Trip RevenueNo. of Cars Utilization
Supply Demand
Accessibility AcceptabilityAwareness Accessibility
2024-2025
Click here for 
Panorama Report!

===== PAGE 78 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Chartered Flight Operator – Interview Transcript
Profitability | Aviation | Moderate | Kearney Buddy Case
Your client is a chartered plane operator with declining profits. Evaluate its problem.
Understood. Before I delve into the case, I have a few clarifying questions on the better understand
the problem statement. Our client is a chartered plane operator and they have been facing falling
profits.?
Yes. Correct.
Also, by how much have their profits declined and since when? Which area do they operate in and is
the decline in profit limited to a specific area? Are other players in the market also facing this issue?
Profits have declined by of 5-10% over the past 1 year. They operate within India and the problem is
not isolated to a particular area. Other players in the market are doing well.
Got it. As per my understanding, chartered flights are usually used by extremely wealthy individuals,
mostly HNIs. Is there any other major customer segment that our client caters to?
You are right. There are two types of customers – HNIs who use it for personal use and Corporates
who use it for official purposes.
Alright, I presume that the customer journey in a private airline business would be different from
normal airline operators. What is the process of request of such as service?
The client is a standard chartered flight operator who provides flight services as per the specific
needs of the customers. Booking can be done through a website or through relationship managers.
Thank you. I would like to analyze the case in more detail. Profit is equal to revenue minus cost. Is
there any information if the revenues have declined or if the costs have increased and by how much?
The client has experienced declining revenues and increasing costs.
Understood. Should I analyze both cost and revenue? Is there any specific area that I should take first?
Let us analyze both cost and revenue. You can begin by examining the falling revenues.
Revenue can be segmented into the number of chartered flights and the average charge per flight. Do
we have any data on which of these has declined over the period?
Both the number of chartered flights and the average charge per flight have declined. Why don’t you
first assess the decline in the number of chartered flights flown and we can then move to the decline
in average flight per charge?
Sure. The number of chartered flights booked over the period is equal to the maximum possible run
multiplied by the booking %. Have we faced any issues that would impact our ability to execute flights
or have the booking percentage gone down?
The maximum possible runs have remained the same. The booking percentage has gone down.
Understood. This means that demand for our services has gone down. In terms of customer journey,
there are 4 key stages - brand awareness, pre-flight booking, service experience, and long-term
engagement. Is there any specific segment that you want me to look at?
Our awareness efforts have remained the same and flight experience is one of the best.
Ok. Has there been any decline in the number of bookings in terms of new and existing clients?
Yes , there has been decline in both new and existing clients.
Sure. While I understand that customers can make the booking through the website and Relationship
Managers, can you please elaborate on the booking procedure?
Consumers can book a chartered flight by directly contacting the relationship managers. When the
consumer goes through the website, they can submit a request for a callback and one of the
relationship managers will contact them.
Thank you! That is very helpful. I think, booking rates can be impacted by the website efficiency or
relationship manager experience. Do we have any information if the website interface has been facing
any issues or if the relationship manager process has suffered?
The website interface has not changed. Why don’t you focus on the relationship managers aspect?
The relationship manager can be rated on service quality, service time in the short run and long-term
relationship development. Is there any other aspect involved and what is declining among these?
The relation managers are trained to execute the service with quality.
Okay. Do we have any information about how long it takes for our relationship managers to fulfil a
request and how it compares against the market average?
Based on preliminary market research, it takes ~7 days for relationship managers to process the
request while the competitors are able to do it in ~2-3 days.
Understood. The time taken to fulfill a request is equal to the total number of requests divided by
both the number of relationship managers and their efficiency rate. Since the demand gone has down, I
think we need to focus on the number of relationship managers and their efficiency rate. Has the
number of relationship managers decreased over the period?
No, it has remained the same.
In that case, we need to focus on the efficiency of relationship managers. The efficiency of relationship
managers can broadly be impacted by the following factors – their ability to perform the task
(adequate training, skills, and qualification, experience level), motivation to do the task (right incentive
schemes), and opportunity to complete the task (conducive environment to aid them while fulfilling
their task). Is there any specific area that you want me to focus on or I can go over them one by one?
I think you have arrived at the problem. We have been facing high attrition rates and have lost 2 out of
5 RMs. The new RMs are not that experienced frequent changes leads to drop in efficiency. Why don’t
we move on to analyze the falling average charge per flight?
Great. Can you please help me understand a bit more about the pricing structure? Do we have a fixed
charge per flight irrespective of the consumers or does the occupancy play a role?
For each booking, the final charge is segmented into a fixed charge for each booking and a variable
charge dependent on the occupancy rate per flight.
Has there been a decline in fixed charge or is the decline in average charge due to lower occupancy?
The fixed charge has remained the same.
Okay. So, our occupancy rates have gone down. In order to analyze this further, I would like to break
this down as per our two major customer segments – HNIs and corporates. Do either of them has a
higher average occupancy rate and if their proportion in total bookings has changed over the period?
Corporate clients have higher average occupancy rates. Over the period the client has moved more
towards HNIs with their share in total bookings increasing from 20% to 50%.
Understood. Then is it safe to assume that this shift towards HNI customers is the driving factor for
our lower average charge per flight? Also, is the shift deliberate from our end?
Yes, you are right. The move is deliberate as we are better positioned for them. Why don’t you look
at the cost aspect as well?
Sure. I think the costs for a chartered flight operator can broadly be segmented into Fixed and
Variable costs. Where Fixed Costs would include major cost items like Leasing, Employee costs, and
maintenance costs and variable costs would include the cost incurred as per the flights – primarily fuel
and Service Costs. Do we have information on which of the two may have increased in this period?
The increase in employee costs has been a concern for the employee
Employee costs can be segmented into cost for flight crews or non-flight staff. Do we know if any of
the two have increased?
Only non-flight staff costs have increased. Can you think why based on the information shared?
Okay. Employee cost can be broadly categorized as– Salaries (including benefits), recruitment and
training. I presume recruitment and training costs would have increased due to increasing attrition?
Good work! You may now summarize the case and go ahead with recommendations.
Sure. The client is facing high turnover rate which is leading to poor service speeds and higher
employee costs. In short term, the client should focus on recruiting more experienced RMs,, identify
reasons for attrition and create incentive schemes to reduce attrition. In the long term, I would
suggest an end-to-end automatic booking process with minimal human involvement.
2024-2025 Page 78

===== PAGE 79 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Important to understand 
the business model and 
different types of 
consumers.
• Structured approach should 
be complemented by 
interviewer suggestion and 
feedback.
Case Facts
• Client is an Indian 
chartered flight operator.
• Declining profits by 5-10% 
for nearly 1 year.
• Other players in the 
market have not suffered.
• Customers – Personal 
HNIs and corporates.
• Business model – boking 
through website and 
relationship managers.
Page 79
Recommendations
• Short-Term: focus on recruiting more experienced RMs, train the current staff better, identify reasons for attrition and create incentive schemes to reduce attrition.
• Long-Term: focus on developing an automated website booking system to reduce dependency on relationship managers, create a centralized system to increase speed and
accountability, and refine our hiring pool to ensure good quality of recruits.
Profits
Cost
Chartered Flight Operator
Your client is a chartered plane operator with declining profits. Evaluate its problem.
Revenue
Number of Flights 
Flown
Maximum 
Possible Runs
Booking %
Awareness Pre-flight 
Experience
Long term 
Engagement
Flight 
Booking
Booking Journey
Customer journey
Website Relationship 
Manager
Call-back 
Request
7 days vs 2-3 
days to book
Number of 
Requests Efficiency
Ability Motivation Opportunity
Attrition 
Rates
(Experience, 
training & skills)
(Incentive 
schemes)
(Facilities 
and Tech)
Fixed Charge
Variable Charge –
Occupancy Rates
Average Charge per 
Flight Fixed Cost
Leasing Cost
Employee Cost
Fuel
Other Utilities
Variable Cost
Variable 
CompensationMaintenance
Profitability | Aviation | Moderate | Kearney Buddy Case
2024-2025
Click here for 
Panorama Report!

===== PAGE 80 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad Page 80
Your client is a grocery retail store owner. Recently it has been experiencing a decline in its profits.
They want you to analyze the causes and recommend solutions for the same.
To begin with, I would like to know whether the profits is being affected at a single store or a chain
of stores. I would also want to know the timeline and the magnitude of the decline.
It is only a single store. The decline has been observed over the past 1 year and has been around 5-
10%.
Alright, where is the store located, and for how long has the store been open?
The store is in an urban city, right next to a metro station. It has been open for the past 5 years.
Okay. So, the client has been facing this problem only since last year. Next, I would want to know
whether this problem of decline in profits is being observed by other grocery stores nearby?
The other stores have not seen a decline.
Okay. I believe that a typical grocery store would sell all kinds of product categories, ranging from
fresh fruits & vegetables, packaged and frozen foods to household, healthcare, and personal care
items.
That is correct. Let's also assume that selling these products is the only source of revenue.
Okay, I just had another question regarding where the client lies in the value chain? Do they only
procure and sell products, or they have an in-house brand that they manufacture and sell in the
retail store?
The client does not have an in-house brand. They only purchase and sell products of different
companies
Great! I would now like to dive into the case and structure it to get to the bottom of the problem. I
will begin by breaking Profits into its component parts: Revenues and Costs. Next, I will identify
which of these are a problem and further look into factors that may have changed to alter either of
these. Would you like me to proceed in this way?
Yes, that sounds like a good start. Why don't you go ahead?
Since Profit is a function of Revenues and Costs, I would like to know if the revenues have
decreased or if the costs have increased or both have happened simultaneously.
The costs have remained the same, but the revenues have declined.
Okay, looking at the revenues, the major heads of revenue would be selling of different product
categories, as mentioned before. Has the client seen a decline in any one of these categories or
multiple categories?
There has been a decline in all the categories.
Okay, that is interesting. The problem of decline could either be a demand side issue or supply side
issue. Supply side issue would consist of whether the client has enough products available in the
store or the products are available, but the store is unable to sell them. Demand side issue would
consist of a drop in consumer demand of the products in the client's store. Do we know which of
these it could be?
There has been no change in the supply and availability of the products, it is more of a demand side 
problem, could you further look into this.
Sure, I would break down the consumer demand in the following way, the revenues would be: 
(Number of customers in the nearby area)*(% of customers that enter the store)*( % of them that 
buy the products)*(Average ticket size). I would want to analyze these factors one by one.
Sure. Let's assume that the number of people in the city and in that area haven't
changed or decreased.
Okay, it would be highly unlikely that they would have decreased as it would also lead to a decrease
in profits of nearby stores. The problem could lie in number of customers that enter the store or %
of them that buy the products or the Average ticket size.
Yes, go ahead.
Grocery Retail Store – Interview Transcript
Profitability | Profit Decline | Retail | Challenging
Sure. The client has seen that the number of customers entering the store has decreased.
Okay, to analyze this I would want to investigate the following four factors: The promotion and
awareness of the store amongst the customers, accessibility to the store, the prices of the products
and the kind of products being sold in the store.
I would now like to look at the number of customers entering the store.
Do you think that this would cover all the aspects?
Okay, maybe not. I would want to look at the customer journey instead
Yes. Go ahead with this approach.
Sure, looking at the customer journey. I would want to break this down into three parts: Pre-Buying,
During-Buying and Post-Buying. Pre-Buying would include the journey from the decision of buying
groceries to reaching the store. During- Buying would include the journey from entering the store to
leaving the store, Post-Buying would include the journey after the customer has left the store. Is there
something that you'd like me to focus on?
This covers almost all the aspects. I would want you to look at the Pre-Buying and During-Buying
journey.
Sure, I would analyze the Pre-Buying journey first and then move on the During-Buying journey. Pre -
Buying would include the decision of buying groceries, choosing which store to go to (which would
include awareness and affordability), choosing the mode of transport and reaching the store
(accessibility aspect). I believe that the decision of buying groceries would not have changed as
groceries are used on a day-to-day basis. Looking at choosing the store, it could be that another
grocery store has come up near the client's store or customers have started buying groceries online,
but then this would also decrease the profits of other grocery store in that area. I believe that this is
highly unlikely.
You are correct. I would want you to look at the accessibility to the store and list down the modes of
transport that people would use to reach the store and analyze them.
Okay, the modes of transport that people would use to reach the store would include walking or
cycling, personal vehicle (two wheelers and four wheelers) and public transport (cabs, busses,
autorickshaws and metro). Since the store is located next to a metro station. I believe that majority of
the customers would be using the metro trains to reach the store as it would be more convenient. I
wound want to analyze this first and then move to other modes of transport.
Yes, you are correct, majority of the customers use the metro trains. You can start by analyzing the 
metro trains.
Alright, so we know that customers reaching the store have decreased. Looking at the metro trains, 
I would like to look at four aspects: Awareness, Accessibility, Availability and Affordability. 
Awareness would consist of people being aware of the metro station and its facilities. Accessibility 
would include how convenient it is to reach the metro station and access the trains.
Availability would include the frequency of trains, number of trains and capacity of trains running in
the metro station. Affordability would include whether customers are able to afford the tickets
which would depend on the price of the tickets. I believe that there could be a problem with any of
these factors.
Yes. There has been an ongoing construction work of a new metro line at the metro station since
past 1 year due to which there has been a decline in the frequency of trains.
2024-2025

===== PAGE 81 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad Page 81
Okay, that explains why lesser customers are reaching the stores as lesser number of
trains are reaching the metro station. I would now want to look at the next mode of
transport. Is there something in specific that you'd like me to look at.
Yes. Can you look at the customers that use personal vehicles (four wheelers) as they form the
next highest share of people going to the grocery store.
Sure, I would like to look at the customer journey here. I would want to break this down into
three parts and see if the problem lies in any of these components. Pre-Travel, During-Travel and
Post-Travel. Pre travel would include the journey till the onboarding of the vehicle. During travel
would include the journey from onboarding to deboarding the vehicle after parking, Post-Travel
journey would include the journey after deboarding and then reaching the store. Is there anything
in specific that you would like me to look at.
Yes. I would want you to focus on the During-Travel journey, primarily the parking bit.
Alright, it seems that there is a parking issue. The factors that come to my mind which would affect
the parking of vehicles would be: Safety, Convenience, Capacity and Price. Safety aspect would
consist of whether people feel safe to park their vehicles in that area or parking
space. Convenience would include how convenient it is for the customers to park their vehicle,
get down and reach the store. There could also be a capacity constraint, due to which people
are unable to park their cars or the prices could have gone up due to which customers would
not want to park their cars. Have I covered all aspects or am I missing out on something?
Yes, you have covered almost all the aspects. So, there has been a new furniture store that has
come up near the grocery store, which has taken up half of the parking space and the parking
charges have also shot up.
Okay, as the parking capacity has decreased, lesser number of people can park their cars and
people are reluctant to pay a higher price due to which the number of customers reaching the
store has decreased.
Alright, you've done a thorough analysis of the Pre-Buying journey, let's move on to the During-
Buying journey.
Sure, The during buying journey would include the journey from entering the store to leaving the
store. I'll break it down into two parts: find & procure the products (ease of finding the products,
which would include collection of a basket, browsing through the products, checking for the
freshness of the product, whether they require any help in finding the products, and their
accessibility) and then proceed to the payment counter, payments can be done through cash, cards,
online payment, or some other method of payment. Am I going in the right direction, or have I
missed out on something?
Yes, you are going in the right direction. The products are easily accessible and are available and
let's also assume that there are enough employees in the store to help the customers in the buying
process.
Okay, that means that there is an issue with the payment process I would now like to look at the
payment process.
Sure, go ahead.
Looking at the payments, I would want to know percentage share of different payment methods.
Majority of the customers use cards, followed by cash for making transactions.
Alright, I will analyze the payments through cards first and then look at the cash transactions.
Looking at the pain points that the customer might face. I can think of high transaction failure rate,
or unusually high processing time.
Indeed, the construction activities of the new line at the metro station have led to a loss of signal of
the card machines at multiple times during the day due to which there has been high processing
time and failure rate of transactions. Can you give the client some recommendations regarding this
problem of declining profits?
Sure, I would like to suggest recommendations for short-term and long-term basis. In the short
term, firstly, if people are unable to come to the store, the store can start home
delivery of the products. Secondly, the parking space area can be renegotiated, (valet parking can
also be arranged).
In the long term, the store can install a repeater (to enhance signal strength). A proper cable
connection can also be established as, metro construction would take a lot of time.
Thank you. We are done with the case.
Thank You.
Grocery Retail Store – Interview Transcript
Profitability | Profit Decline | Retail | Challenging
2024-2025

===== PAGE 82 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a grocery retail store owner. Recently it has been experiencing a decline in its profits. They want you to analyse the causes and 
recommend solutions for the same.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• It is important to 
understand whether the 
cause of decline is due to 
low revenues or high 
costs.
• Customer journey needs 
to be focused upon for 
decreasing numbers.
• Less customers because of 
low frequency of metro 
trains and lower parking 
space.
Case Facts
• Problem specific to 
only the client and not 
other grocery stores.
• Revenues have declined 
across all categories.
• Accessibility of the 
store has led to less 
customers.
• Payment process 
affected by poor signal 
due to construction.
Page 82
Profits
Costs Revenue
Demand Supply 
No. of Customers
Customer Journey
Grocery Retail Store
Recommendations
• In the short term, firstly, if people are unable to come to the store, the store can start home delivery of the products. Sec ondly, the parking space area can be renegotiated, (valet parking 
can also be arranged).
• In the long term, the store can install a repeater (to enhance signal strength). A proper cable connection can also be established as, metro construction would take a lot of time.
Observations / Suggestions
• It is important to breakdown the cause of the problem such that all aspects are covered.
• Analyse each part till the end, even though we might have found some strong reasons in previous analysis.
During 
Buying 
Post 
Buying 
Affordability Accessibility Procurement Payment 
2-wheelers 4-wheelers Cabs/Buses Metros Cash Card
Poor Signal Parking Issue Frequency Drop due 
to Construction
Profitability | Profit Decline | Retail | Challenging
Awareness 
Pre 
Buying
2024-2025
Click here for 
Panorama Report!

===== PAGE 83 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Moving on to partners, revenue is generated from platform fees that partners pay to stay on Urban
Company and profits on the sale of consumables and tools. Increasing platform fees may reduce
their incentive to be on the platform and encourage disintermediation, which is currently a major
concern. It may also hinder new partners from joining the platform, which would hurt network
effects, and is therefore infeasible.
Urban Company aims to maintain a standard quality of services and tries to build this by providing
partners with skills and tools. By sourcing tools and selling them to partners at a lower-than-market
rate, along with the added proposition of home delivery, Urban Company creates a value
proposition for partners.
These are interesting suggestions. Any further things you’d like to consider?
In addition to these ancillary customer revenue streams, increasing the recency, frequency, and
monetary value of purchases can help extract more value from existing customers, even without
explicitly increasing prices. Recency can be achieved through push notifications which help Urban
Company stay on top of the customer’s mind. Frequency can be increased by personalized,
targeted offerings that meet customer’s needs. Monetary value can potentially be increased by
moving into premium offerings, which are locally specific. Understanding the customer is crucial to
achieve this, so Urban Company can learn from existing usage as well as market research.
What do you think are the largest cost heads for Urban Company?
Unlike most platforms, Urban Company has many more touchpoints with the customer and incur
significant costs to maintain quality and consistency. Among those include training costs and the
cost of attrition. These costs can be controlled through optimal partner selection.
Great! We can stop here.
Your client, Urban Company wants to improve their bottom line. How should they go about it?
Thank you for the problem statement. I would like to start by clarifying my understanding of Urban
Company’s business model and then assess current profitability. I’m aware that Urban Company is
a two-sided platform that provides beauty, cleaning, and miscellaneous services, such as repair, at
home by connecting partners with customers through their app. Does this cover the scope of
activities or is there anything I am missing? Also how much does each contribute to Urban
Company’s revenues?
That’s right. You’ve covered all the activities. Beauty is the largest category, contributing 40% of
revenues, while cleaning and miscellaneous services contribute 30% each.
Urban Company is just about about to break even. I’d also like to know how the trend in their
revenues and costs in recent years. How have they been performing?
Revenues have been increasing, and costs have fallen even more, but they are just about to break
even.
Got it! Lastly, is there a specific objective that can provide a direction on how they want to
improve their bottom line? Do they have a target on when to break even?
They want to break even in the next year.
I see. So Urban Company can improve their bottom line through increasing the top line, that is
revenue or by reducing costs. I would like to break revenue down into three major heads –
service, data and advertising. I can also look at cost reduction under different cost heads. Can I
proceed with this approach?
Let’s looking into increasing revenues first.
Within the revenue heads identified, Urban Company is currently generating revenue from
services, whereas data and advertising constitute potential promising revenue sources. Urban
Company has a wealth of data that be monetized to create value-added offerings for multiple sides.
Moreover, increasing usage makes the platform extremely attractive for advertisers so that value
can be captured even when a customer is merely browsing. Having the right mix of advertisers
would not diminish the user experience.
The service head derives from the core activities of Urban Company. Within services, revenue
comes from two sides - customers and partners. In addition to charges for the services they avail
on the platform, customers pay a convenience fee with every transaction. Urban Company can
explore increasing the convenience fee provided it doesn’t result in a demand drop. The
convenience fee cannot be increased if customers are price sensitive, and prone to availing
competitors’ services.
Prepaid revenue can be realised through subscriptions and plans, which carry a host of benefits.
For example, wait time between booking and the start of the service can be expedited from 2
hours to less than 15 minutes in cases with a plan. In addition to generating additional revenue,
plans increase customer loyalty.
Therefore, tapping into prepaid revenue would serve to increase customer retention. Additionally
surge pricing can be employed during periods of peak demand, for example during Diwali when the
demand for home cleaning services tends to spike.
Urban Company – Interview Transcript
Profitability | Services | Moderate | McKinsey
Page 832024-2025

===== PAGE 84 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client, Urban Company wants to improve their bottom line. How should they go about it?   
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Revenues have increased, 
and costs have fallen, and 
they are just about to
break-even
• The only consideration to 
be made was to the top 
line 
• Knowledge of general 
company structure helped
Case Facts
• Urban Company’s 
service verticals are 
beauty (40%), cleaning 
(30%), and 
miscellaneous (30%) 
• Platform sides include 
customers and partners 
(service providers) 
• Revenues from 
partners were rigid
Profits
Costs Revenues
Services
Customers
Urban Company
Recommendations
• Consider surge pricing for areas with high demand, during times of festivals et cetera
• Focus on increasing proportion of customers who have subscribed to the pass, increasing the prepaid revenue
Key Learnings
• This case was based on the candidate’s work experience. 
• In a platform-based case, it is good to establish different sides and understand the business model
• The profitability framework should be altered to cater to the product in question   
Page 84
Advertising
Profitability | Services | Moderate | McKinsey
Data Monetization
Partners
Convenience Fee
Surge Pricing
Prepaid Revenue
Sales of 
Consumables
Platform Fees
RFM 
2024-2025

===== PAGE 85 =====

Market Entry
cases


===== PAGE 86 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Production House – Interview Transcript
Market Entry | Entertainment - Production House | Easy | Strategy& Buddy Case 
Your client is a large production house based out of Andhra Pradesh that produces the best 
Tollywood movies. They are looking to create an OTT platform where they can host their movies. 
The client has consulted you to advise them whether they should do so or not.
If I may confirm, our client is a large production house producing Tollywood movies and is 
contemplating if they should create a new OTT platform for their content.
Correct.
I have a few clarifying questions before diving into the analysis. Is the client looking to create a 
platform only for their movies? Or is it open to host other movies?
Only Tollywood movies aimed at Telugu speaking population in AP and Telangana
What kind of content will be hosted on the platform? Movies/ TV Series/ Videos etc.
They want to leverage their existing movies already produced for the platform. But the client is 
also open to hosting movies and TV series of other production houses for the regional audience.
What kind of movies does the client have? Do they target any particular target segment such as 
based on age (young/old) or genre (romance, action etc.) ?
They have movies from all genres and across segments. They do not target any specific segment.
What is the objective of the client for creating an OTT platform?
The client wants to generate more revenue through the platform. Most of the movies are being 
pirated and not generating any money after they are removed from theatres.
How is our platform going to be priced? Is it affordable like ‘Aha’ or premium such as ‘Netflix’?
Client wants it to be budget friendly and priced low to attract all the Telugu speaking audience
Got it. I now have good clarity about the client’s objective. Can I take some time to structure my 
thoughts?
Sure. Please take your time.
I'd like to approach this issue by first assessing the market attractiveness, then the financial viability, 
followed by operational viability. Aspects of market attractiveness include evaluating the market 
size, growth potential, existing competition, and market trends. The economic viabilityaspect is 
assessing the profitability of venturing into the OTT business. Factors such as regulatory approvals, 
resource availability, and technological capabilities would comprise operational feasibility. Do you 
find this to be reasonable, or should I consider any other factors?
No, you can go ahead with this structure. First, please start with estimating the market size.
I would divide the market size (in rupees) into two categories: the number of users and the 
average monthly subscription fee per user. To calculate the number of users, I would further 
divide it into two categories: potential market size and conversion rate. The market size is the 
total Telugu-speaking population in the states of AP and Telangana (Assuming other states do not 
have significant viewership), which is about 15 crores. Considering 5 people per household, this 
translates to 3 crore households. We can assume that there will be only one subscription from 
each family. Now, I'd like to divide the households further based on their income level and 
rural/urban to bring affordability into picture.
The approach seems fine. Can you complete your analysis with only income factor and estimate 
the market size.
Sure, I will further divide it into three income levels: low, medium, and high, with 40% in the low 
and medium income levels each and 20% in the high income levels. This results in 2 crore low- and 
middle-income families and 1 crore high-income families. Assuming that a subscription to an OTT 
platform is not a necessary good, the affordability would vary by income level. I would assume 100% 
for high-income groups, 50% for medium-income groups, and 20% for low-income groups. Are 
these fair assumptions?
Yes. Makes sense to me. You can go ahead.
On calculating, this would give us 2.2 crore households purchasing the OTT subscription. Now, I 
would like to bring in two additional factors of awareness and adoption. Awareness depends on our 
marketing efforts. Since we are a major production house, I believe the awareness would be as high 
as 80%. Adoption would depend on existing competition in the market. Considering a highly 
competitive environment with Aha, Sony, Zee5, etc. along with large players such as Hotstar and 
Netflix, I believe only 40% would adopt. With this factors into consideration, our final number of 
expected subscriptions is 0.7 crore. 
Alright. That is a good estimate. Now let’s discuss the prices. How much do you think we should 
charge our customers?
We can set the price based on the following methodologies – cost-based pricing, competitor-based 
pricing and value-based pricing. Considering, the industry, I believe competitor and value-based 
methods are more appropriate for an OTT platform subscription.
Yes, you are right. Let’s decide on a monthly subscription price.
First, I would like to examine the pricing of other OTT players on the market – Netflix charges Rs. 
499/month for its basic plan and falls into the premium segment, whereas Disney-Hotstar charges 
approximately Rs. 150/month. Given the vast variety of content they offer users, we can consider 
this to be the maximum price. In addition, I am aware that DTH services typically charge between 
Rs. 10 and Rs. 20 per channel per month. Given that the OTT platform would provide greater 
scheduling flexibility without interruptions from advertisements, it would therefore provide greater 
value to the user. Also, because we want to make the subscription available to all range of 
audiences, we should price it on the cheaper side. Rs. 50 per month seems to be a reasonable price. 
Does this seem fair to you?
Yes. It seems fair.
So, the total market share obtained would be 0.7 crore* Rs 50 per month = 35 crore per month or 
420 crores per year.
This looks to be highly attractive. I think we should make this move. How do we go about this?
Correct, there are few ways to go about entering this market. 1) Greenfield way - We can start 
from scratch by investing in IT resources and building a platform from scratch; 2) Acquire the 
platform from an existing player such as Aha; 3) Outsource the creation of a platform to a reputable 
IT firm. 
What is your recommendation?
Considering we do not have any IT capabilities. Greenfield way would be very costly and will not be 
a guaranteed success. Considering OTT platform would be critical revenue source, outsourcing it 
would not appropriate as it will reduce the control. I believe acquiring an existing platform would be 
the best way forward if the client has resources readily available that can be spent.
Good. Thank you for the recommendation. We can end the case here.
2024-2025 Page 86

===== PAGE 87 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Approach/ Framework
Recommendations
• Acquiring an existing platform would be the best way forward if the client has resources readily available that can be spent.
• The client should leverage its brand and movies initially to promote the platform, and then try creating network effects by acquiring content from other popular production houses.
Key Learnings
• It is important to understand the objective and gather knowledge about client business to make better recommendations. 
• This is an example of a case where breadth of preparation is tested by interviewer. It includes working on guesstimate, pricing and GTM strategy for the same case.
• When breaking down market attractiveness. A simpler approach would have been (market size) * (market share), which is commonly used by many interviewees.
• Assume numbers that are easy for calculation and confirm them with the interviewer for guesstimates.
Your client is a production house based out of Andhra Pradesh that produces the best Tollywood movies. They want to host their movies on their own OTT
platform. The client has consulted you to advise them whether they should do so or not.
Interviewee Notes
• Identify the objectives and 
gather knowledge about the 
client to give better 
recommendations.
• Understand the reasons why 
client is interested in  
entering the OTT space.
• It is important to understand 
the industry in case you are 
not aware of it. Considering 
the candidate is from 
Andhra, they did not ask 
much about industry. 
However, it is always better 
to confirm with the 
interviewer if the industry 
facts can be used for the 
case.
Case Facts
• Focus on hosting client’s 
assets (movies). Open 
to host content from 
other production 
houses for regional 
audience.
• Target segment – all 
genres across segments
• Position as a budget 
friendly platform.
• Assume it is happening 
at time of interview.
• Client wants to 
generate more revenue 
through the platform.
Market 
Entry into 
OTT
Financial 
feasibility
Market 
Attractiveness
Production House
Page 87
Operational 
feasibility
Potential market 
size
Conversion rate
Market attractiveness calculation
Market 
attractiveness
x
# Telugu 
speaking 
households
Low Income 
(40%)
Medium income 
(40%)
High income 
(20%)
100%
50%
20%
Affordability factor
x
x
x
Affordable 
households
Awareness 
filter (80%)
Adoption 
filter (40%)
x x
Total 
Subscribers
=
Pricing Framework
Pricing Competitor based pricing
Cost based pricing
Value based pricing
How to enter market - framework
How to 
enter 
market
Acquire a competitor
Greenfield. Start building from scratch
Outsource to an IT firm
Market Entry | Entertainment - Production House | Easy | Strategy& Buddy Case 
2024-2025
Click here for 
Panorama Report!

===== PAGE 88 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Online Dating App – Interview Transcript
Market Entry | Consumer Tech | Moderate | Bain Buddy Case
Your client is an online dating company that wishes to enter the Indian market. Evaluate the
venture.
Okay. First, I would like to understand the objective of our client. Why was India chosen?
The client wants to maximize long term profits. India was chosen due to its huge population and
massive smartphone user base.
Okay. Does the client have any targets, timelines or budget in mind?
There are no specific numbers that they have in mind. The client wants be a competitive player in
the Indian subcontinent.
Alright. Now I will try to understand a little more about the client. What is their primary business
and where are they based out of?
They are based out of UK and run a dating app. Their app has a freemium model where users can
use for free for an unlimited time and upgrade to a premium model on a subscription basis. They
are not involved in any other ventures.
Okay. A few more questions about the client. How competitive are they in the UK market? Do I
just consider an app or a website as well? Further, is their app just a normal dating app like Tinder/
Bumble or do they have any special features or niche target audience?
The client is the market leader in UK. Restrict your analysis to an app. There isn’t any niche target
audience, and you can consider the app to be very similar to Tinder/ Bumble in terms of usage.
Alright. One final question before I proceed with the analysis. How the dating app market looks
like in India?
There are 2 major players who hold ~80% of the market share. The remainder is fragmented.
Please ignore the marriage apps and websites in your analysis.
Sure. I think I have enough to proceed. In my approach, I’ll first understand the market
attractiveness by identifying market size. Then I shall check for economic viability by analysing
potential market share and costs. Finally, I’ll check for operational viability and any future risks/
opportunities.
Sure. This seems like a great approach. Please ignore costs in your analysis. Why don’t we begin
with the market sizing.
Okay. Considering a population of 1400 Mn, I shall first split it between rural and and urban. Given
the nature of our product, I will ignore the rural population. That leaves us with 560 Mn people.
Seems reasonable. How will you proceed?
Now I shall consider filters like income group, smartphone ownership and data usage. However, I
feel that these aren’t very exclusive and will have dependencies amongst themselves.
Yes, you are correct. Why don’t you use a 75% factor to cover for all these filters.
Thank you. That leaves us with ~420 Mn people. Now I shall divide this into age groups as this is
an important factor that determines usage. I would also further divide each age group into male and
female as both genders will have different likelihood of using a dating app. Finally, a factor would be
taken to consider the likelihood of usage. This factor would consider conditions like – If the person
is in a relationship or not? If not, are they willing to date? And if yes, then are they willing to
explore online dating.
That seems great. Why don’t you proceed to find the numbers. (*Detailed numbers in the next
page)
Okay. Based on what we discussed, the market size comes out to be ~28 Mn people. Do you want
me to find the market size in terms of dollars?
No. That isn’t needed. This market size seems good to the client. How much share do you think
we can gather in the market over the years?
Just to employ some benchmarks. Has the client entered any emerging markets in the recent past?
How has that panned out?
Yes. The client did enter a similarly competitive geography last year and they have been able to
gather an 7% market share in the first year.
Okay. Then a 5-10% market share in the first year seems like a good target.
To understand the longer-term market share, I want to understand the differences between our
offering and that of the competitors. These would be across 3 major buckets: 1. Business factors
(brand value and pricing) 2. Dating factors (Quality of users, UI/ UX, ) and 3. Tech factors (matching
algorithm, safety features)
This seems comprehensive. We haven’t decided on the pricing yet. Our brand has decent
recognition in India. Rest of the factors are similar to the market players. But we have better UI/
UX.
Okay. We seem to hold a slight advantage. Given we play our cards right, we can aim for at least a
25-30% market in the next 4-5 years. Do you want to analyze the operational feasibility and future
considerations now?
No. I had some other questions in mind. How would you go about the pricing and positioning of
our premium offering?
Alright. Can I know the current pricing of the market players?
Yes. The leader charges Rs 450 for 3 months while the 2nd player charges Rs 400 for 3 months. I am
not concerned with numbers. Can you tell me your overall pricing and positioning strategy to
maximize long term profits?
Okay. So, I shall keep the discussion qualitative. One of the key requirements of a dating app is to
have a lot of good quality users due to the network effects. Hence, my strategy will revolve around
maximizing user acquisition in the near term and then retaining them in the long term.
That seems fine. Please go on.
Initially, I would price the premium offering at very minimal rates to attain user conversion to
premium. The packages offered shall also be 12-month packages (at negligible costs) to hold on to
users for an extended time period. A referral system can also be implemented to increase word of
mouth downloads. All of these must be supplemented with strong marketing campaigns. Often, lack
of female users is a problem in a dating ecosystem. To counter this special marketing campaigns will
be launched which focus on safety and offer the product free/ at further discounted rates.
That seems like a good strategy to acquire users. How would this play out long term? Do you see
any issues?
Such a strategy can lead to prolonged price wars and destroy the margins of the entire industry.
One critical requirement would be to constantly invest in improving our technology, UX and adding
new features so that we can gradually raise the subscription fees over time.
Okay. That was a good analysis. We can close the case here.
2024-2025 Page 88

===== PAGE 89 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Market Entry FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Important to understand 
the client, their business 
model and the competitive 
landscape within the 
geography selected for 
entry
• Strategy chosen needs to 
match the overall objective 
of the client
Case Facts
• Client is UK based and a 
market leader
• Objective is long term 
profitability
• Operates on a freemium 
model
• Wants to enter India 
which has 2 major players
• Client has marginal 
advantage over incumbents 
in terms of UI/ UX of the 
app
Page 89
Recommendations
• Client should enter the Indian market and focus on developing a huge
user base through massive marketing and attractive pricing plan
Key Learnings
• Past instances of market entry can be used as benchmarks for potential future ventures
• In products with network effects, user acquisition is key and must be prioritized
1. Profitability evaluation 2. Implementation considerations
Market size Costs Value chain set-up Future considerations
Pricing strategyBenchmarking
Competitor comparison
Guesstimate
Online Dating App – Case Structure
Market Entry | Consumer Tech | Moderate | Bain Buddy Case
Your client is an online dating company that wishes to enter the Indian market. Evaluate the venture.
Location
Age Group
Internet accessibility 
factor (75%)
Gender
Total Population (1400 Mn)
Urban (560 Mn) Rural (840 Mn)
18-30 years 
(105 Mn)
30-45 years 
(84Mn)<18 years 30-45 years
Open to dating factor
Willing to use apps factor
Relevant 
segment 
(15.75 Mn)
Relevant 
segment (6.3 
Mn)
40% 60%
25% 20%
420 Mn
60%
50%
40%
30%
~28 Mn
50% 50% 50%50%
2024-2025
Males 
(52.5 Mn)
15%
20%
Relevant 
segment 
(1.26 Mn)
Females 
(42 Mn)
25%
40%
Relevant 
segment (4.2 
Mn)
Males (42 
Mn)
Females 
(52.5 Mn)
STP and GTM strategyMarket share

===== PAGE 90 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Fair enough. Moving on, assume that the client has decided to enter this market. How would you
roll-out the products to their intended customers?
As the client is already present in the life and health insurance segment, it would have insurance
agents on the ground. So, my first move would be to educate the agents about our products
through training programs in main cities in the initial months. We can begin with the existing agents,
and over a period of time, can look to hire specialized agents depending on how well the client’s
home insurance products are perceived.
Training the sales-people is a good start, but how would that ensure that customers buy these
products if they aren’t interested in them in the first place?
If the penetration of home insurance is low, then that could be due to two reasons – either people
don’t know about it or don’t trust these products. So, we need to educate them about the
importance of getting their home insured. We can reach out to these customers through home
builders and contractors. We can also tie-up with banks, who can inform clients about home
insurance while giving out home loans.
Okay. Do you see any other roadblocks or pitfalls in your roll-out plan?
The roll-out would be slow and gradual. Since our current sales force is trained to sell health & life
insurance products, they would need re-training regarding the home insurance products. Also, since
we are educating the masses, then we are also educating them for the competitors. So even if the
competitors have marginally better prices, then people would go for them as people in this segment
would be price sensitive.
What analysis can you do that would help the CEO in taking a much more informed decision?
We can do the “customer lifetime value analysis” by considering their acquisition cost and the
revenue earned per customer over their lifetime. This will give an indication to the CEO regarding
whether this segment is worth entering.
We could also explore the option of acquiring any existing player. Also, we can try and explore any
previous ventures in this space by our competitors to help us appreciate the challenges of this
segment.
Furthermore, we also need to analyze the regulatory framework and see if there are any legal
constraints hindering the expansion in this segment.
I think we can stop here. Thanks a lot for your time. I liked the way you approached the case.
A foreign insurance company has observed very low penetration of home insurance in the Indian
market. It already has its presence in the health insurance and life insurance segment in the Indian
market. It is planning to enter the home insurance category. You have to build a go to market
strategy for the client.
Okay, great! I need some additional information before we start to deep dive in the case. What
are the primary objectives of the company to enter the home insurance segment?
The client believes that there’s a real-estate boom happening across India, and hence sees it as a
potential market which is expected to grow substantially in the coming years.
Okay, so they’re basing their decision on the growth of the housing market. What products are
they planning to sell in this segment?
They are looking to sell home insurance products which would not only be limited to new houses
but would also be relevant for renovation of existing houses. They want to try to capture the
broader market.
So ideally, we’ll not only be looking at people who own houses, but also people who are planning
to buy new homes. Can you tell me a bit more about the current competition in this segment?
There is low penetration; not many companies have ventured into this segment. It is a relatively
untapped market.
That’s great. So, we don’t have to fight competitors to grow our share. We can build our
customer base from scratch. Can you tell me more about what kind of clients we are planning to
sell our products to?
The company hasn’t decided this yet and would like to know your thoughts on this.
In terms of client profiling, I would start by segmenting the Indian population in terms of their
income groups in the rural and urban market. Since the company wants to enter the home-
insurance market, initially, it can ignore the rural population since home ownership among this
population is quite low. In terms of the urban population, I would segment this market according
to income groups i.e. high-income, middle-income and low-income.
That’s right. What segment should the clients target?
Very few people in the low-income segment would own a house, whereas for a middle-class
person, buying a house is a dream. So, there will be a large portion of the population in this
segment who would be thinking about purchasing a house. Also, the individuals in this segment are
more risk-averse and would want to protect their house with insurance. People in the high-income
segment would also be interested in our products. Therefore, the client should target the middle-
income and high-income groups.
What assumptions will you make for each segment?
Certain assumptions will have to be made regarding the needs, profiling and size and market share
for each target segment. For instance, buying a home is definitely a need for middle-income
segment whereas it is lesser for high-income class. The market for home insurance will be
significantly higher for the middle-income segment compared to middle-income segment, and so
on,
Insurance company – Interview Transcript
Market Entry | BFSI | Moderate
Page 902024-2025

===== PAGE 91 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Approach/ Framework Interviewee Notes
• Understand the 
vision/objective of entering 
the new market
• Determine Target 
Segment; based on this try 
to determine how to plan 
for a successful product 
offering using the 4 P's of 
marketing: Price, Product, 
Promotion, and Place
• Analyze how to use 
current strengths 
(industry presence 
/resources / salespeople) 
to expand into the new 
market
• Identify potential 
problems/barriers that 
company may face while 
entry   
Case Facts
• Client is a foreign insurance 
company, and is already 
present in the health and life 
insurance segment in the Indian 
market
• Low penetration in the home 
insurance segment
A foreign insurance company has observed very low penetration of home insurance in the Indian market. It already has its presence in the
health insurance and life insurance segment in the Indian market. It is planning to enter the home insurance category. You have to build a go
to market strategy for the client.
Insurance company
Recommendations
• The client should enter the home-insurance segment
• They are already present in the health and life insurance segments, and can leverage their existing salesforce to introduce home insurance products to their clients
• Real-estate industry projected to grow; home products cover both new and existing houses, making the Urban Middle and High -income group preferred target segment
Key learnings
• Very important to understand here who your target customer is
• Probe every information that interviewer has provided in the beginning: For ex: why is penetration so low and what does it me an for our client?
• The candidate could’ve dwelled a bit more into the implementation which would have added more value to his arguments. 
Page 91
Market Entry | BFSI | Moderate
2024-2025
Click here for 
Panorama Report!

===== PAGE 92 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Healthcare Test Kit Manufacturer – Interview Transcript
There are 3 pricing strategies that can be followed.
• The first one is competitive pricing. Since it is a fragmented market with a single leader, our
client can match the prices being charged by the market leader to grab a share of the market.
• The second is cost plus margin pricing. Since the product manufactured by our client is
technologically like the one being made by the Indian market leader it can be assumed that the
per-unit cost of manufacturing the product is similar (adjusted for duties since the product is
being imported). In such a case, the client should charge a price that is equal to cost plus a
margin benchmarked to the competition.
• The third pricing strategy is value-based pricing. Here price will be based on the product
attributes and the perceived sense of value by the consumer. If the client can tweak the kit in a
way that helps provide additional value for example quicker results or higher accuracy, then
price can be increased in accordance with the perceived increase in value of the customer.
Since the product is very similar to the market leader’s product, our client can opt for the second
strategy i.e. cost plus margin. Over time as the product is modified, the price can be changed.
That is a quite comprehensive coverage of the types of pricing. Before we close the case, I want to
hear your thoughts on the target market share for the client.
For the target market share we can look at three approaches.
• The first being benchmarking against competition. The market share that the industry leader
was able to obtain during the initial years of its operations can be used as a broader estimate
after adjusting for overall industry newness factors.
• The second approach can be benchmarking against own experience. However, since the client
has not moved beyond Australia, this cannot be used as a reliable method because of the
differences in the Indian and Australian health care markets.
• The third method is estimating the needs of the test kit via total number of path-labs in the
country and average tests conducted by each path lab. Here, the difference in demands of rural
and urban areas will be kept in mind before estimating the average demand per path lab.
Those were good strategies. We are done with the case.
Your client is an Australian Healthcare test kit manufacturer which has decided to enter the Indian
market. You have been hired to advise them on the mode of entry and pricing strategies.
I would like to know more about the client. What sort of healthcare test kits does it manufacture
and what are the key customer segments?
The company makes basic healthcare tests which are used for testing blood sugar levels in labs.
The kits can be used by lab technicians only and hence the key customers are pathology labs.
Using retail as a proxy for healthcare, the value chain for the kits would be, that the test kits are
sent to distributors who then sell it retail outlets.
How is the company performing in Australia? Are they present in any other country? Also, what is
the objective for entering into the Indian market?
You are correct in your assumption of the value chain. The company is the market leader of these
test kits in Australia with a 65% market share. They are currently not present in any other country.
The main objective of deciding to enter the Indian market is business expansion. The company
aims to stabilize operations and turn profitable in the next 2-3 years.
That seems like a reasonable objective given its position as the market leader in the Australian
market. I would now like to know about the healthcare test market in India. How many players are
there and what is the market share of the current market leader?
There is one major player in the Indian Healthcare Test kit industry that has a technologically
similar product as your client. The rest of the market is made up of small fragmented players.
Ok, I think I have sufficient data to begin my preliminary assessment. For entering a new market,
they have two options: Greenfield and Brownfield.
• With the Greenfield option they can enter the Indian market from scratch. This would involve
setting up operations of the company. Since the company aims to turn profitable in 2-3 years of
entry into India, setting up manufacturing facilities does not seem feasible. The company can
thus import the devices from Australia and sell them in India.
• If the company goes for the Brownfield option, they can acquire an existing company. Since
there is a market leader, and the rest of the market is fragmented we can acquire that player.
Let’s assume the client wants to go ahead with the Greenfield option. What are the initial
strategies you would recommend to gain the market share?
The client can partner with big hospital and laboratory chains across the country to start with. This
will help in achieving sustainable revenue streams. Once this is done, then the focus can be shifted
to independent labs across the country. As is common with the pharma industry, the
pharmaceutical sales representatives (PSR) generally help create awareness about the product. The
client should focus on developing a dedicated on-ground sales force for the kits.
Good insight into the PSR part. Moving on to the pricing aspect. How should the client price these
test kits?
Market Entry | Healthcare | Easy | BCG Buddy Case
2024-2025 Page 92

===== PAGE 93 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Recommendations
• Short Term: Create a handbook / manual with technical specifications of all the products for sales personnel, so that it beco mes easier for them to explain the product catalogue
• Long Term: Provide training to the employees on how to deal with large scale clients
Key Learnings
• It is important to understand the objective and the timeline to achieve the desired objective
• It is important to think about the industry and competition both in home country and target market
• In case of a single market leader case, cost plus margin pricing or competitive pricing works best
Your client is an Australian Healthcare test kit manufacturer which has decided to enter the Indian market. You have been hired to advise
them on the mode of entry and pricing strategies.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• It is important to 
understand the objective 
and timeline for achieving 
the objective. i.e. Why 
enter the Indian market, 
what are the timelines to 
break even and turn 
profitable.
• Enquire about the client’s 
performance in the home 
country. That can give 
insights into the scale and 
financial health of the 
company
• Enquire about the target 
industry and understand 
the competition
• Develop pricing strategy 
in accordance with the 
competitive environment 
and objectives of the 
company
Case Facts
• Australian company 
(65% market share) 
which manufactures 
healthcare test kits, 
has decided to enter 
the Indian market
• The Indian market 
has a market leader 
(70%), and the 
remaining part is 
largely fragmented
• The company has 
decided to enter via 
the Greenfield option
• The client’s product 
is technologically 
similar to the market 
leader’s product.
How to enter
Brownfield Greenfield
Import and 
sell
Set-up 
manufacturing 
capacities
Partnerships with 
large hospital and 
path-lab chains
Targeting 
individual path-
labs through MRs
Page 93
Competitive 
Benchmarking
Value based 
Pricing
Cost plus 
Margin
Pricing
Acquire market 
leader
Acquire 
independent 
player/s
Healthcare Test Kit Manufacturer
Market Entry | Healthcare | Easy | BCG Buddy Case
Competitive 
Benchmarking
Demand side 
Estimation
Benchmarking 
against Self
Acquiring 
Market Share
2024-2025
Click here for 
Panorama Report!

===== PAGE 94 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Skin Care Manufacturer – Interview Transcript
Market Entry | Beauty & Personal Care | Moderate | McKinsey Buddy Case 
to import its product or manufacture it in India?
Good question. The client plans on setting up its manufacturing facilities in India.
Alright. The value chain would be as follows.
Raw Materials → Manufacturing → Logistics → Distribution → Customers
Have I taken all the aspects into consideration?
Yes, this looks fine.
Great! I would like to evaluate these variables step by step.
Raw Material – will our client be able to source the required raw materials for production?
Manufacturing – will the client be able to manufacture 50 Lakh units in India to meet the demand?
Logistics – will the client establish its our own logistics network or use a third party?
Distribution – will our client sell on their website, ecommerce platform or through retail stores?
Customers – does our client have the required marketing capabilities for the Indian market?
The client will be taking advantage of its existing vendors to source the raw materials. The
manufacturing facility will be well equipped to produce 1 Crore units. The client would use third part
logistics to distribute their products pan-India. Client would sell their products through a national
specialty products chain along with selling through ecommerce websites.
Could you investigate some of the ways in which our client can market their face cream?
Sure. Our client can look to market their face cream in the following ways:
Advertisements can be given in women’s magazines and journals. Social media can be leveraged to
advertise to the wider audience. Free trials could be given with the help of smaller sachets. Client can
also come out with smaller packaging at a lower price to expand its target segment.
They can also sell through partnerships with dermatologists.
Good, let's move ahead.
Ok. Now I would like to look at the possible modes of entry which are Joint Venture, M&A and
setting up our own facility.
Joint Venture – Entering into a JV won't be a good idea considering the use of natural ingredients by
our client unlike the competitors. This would also dilute our brand and our value proposition.
M&A – This option will also dilute our value proposition in terms of natural ingredients. Also, the size
of the existing players makes it an expensive and risky proposition.
Setting Up – Setting up our own manufacturing facility seems to be an attractive mode of entry
although it may be a time-consuming process, but it will help the client to maintain its value
proposition.
Good. Can you also look at some of the barriers to exit that our client might face if the project fails.
Sure. Some of the barriers to exit that I can think of are:
Regulatory – The foreign Investment might have a lock in period for the client, making it difficult to
withdraw operations.
Scale of operations – Considering the establishment of the manufacturing facility, any withdrawal
would be met with huge losses. We might have to look at buyers of client’s manufacturing facility and
operations.
Ok, so what is your final recommendation to our client?
The client should move ahead with the opportunity of entering India. The project is financially
attractive with a prospective Rs. 500 Crores in profit to be made in first year. The barriers to entry
are also minimal, hence a smooth entry is expected. The value chain seems to be figured out by the
client. The suggested mode of entry would be to set up its own operations to save the value
proposition and brand image. They can further look at enhancing their product as per the needs of the
India consumers, specifically skin types and weather, for establishing a firm hold and continued
profitability.
Great! It was wonderful interacting with you.
Your client is a skin care products manufacturer in the U.S. They are contemplating whether they
should enter India or not. Prepare a Go To Market strategy for the client.
Ok, so before starting the analysis I would like to know why are they looking to enter India, and do
they have a particular metric in mind that will help us evaluate this opportunity?
India has a large population and India’s skin care industry is growing at the rate of 8% p.a. Our client
believes that if they would be able to breakeven in the first year, it’s a good opportunity.
I would also like to know what kind of products does our client sell in the U.S. and do they want to
enter India with the same set of products? Also, how is our client’s product portfolio different from
any other face cream?
The client sells face creams and serums in the U.S., and they would like to enter India with their face
creams. The client uses natural ingredients in its creams unlike the incumbent players which use
artificial ingredients.
Coming to the point of competitors, I would like to know what is the competitive landscape like of
the face cream industry in India.
The Indian face cream segment is dominated by two big firms, each having a market share of 50%.
Ok. Also, where does our client operate in the value chain? Do they plan on rolling out their
products pan India?
So, the client manufacturers on their own and sells their products through 3rd party distributers. They
would like to roll out their product pan India while targeting the premium segment of products for
women aged above 18.
Thank you for the information. Firstly, I would like to conduct a financial feasibility analysis. Then I’ll
try to look at the barriers to entry along with the operational feasibility. Lastly, if the plan is feasible, I
would like to look at the possible modes of entry.
Go Ahead.
I will analyze the financial feasibility with the help of the following equation-
Market Size x Market Share x (Price p.u. –Variable Cost p.u.) – Fixed Cost
Do we have information regarding any of these variables?
Let's assume that in the first year we would be able to capture 5% of the market. The price of 1 unit
is Rs. 1500 and variable cost per unit is Rs. 800. The fixed cost that the client will incur would be
close to Rs. 200 Crores. You can calculate the market size for me.
Thank you. Taking a population size of 130 Crores and assuming 50% of it to be females, I get 65
Crores. I would further divide this into 30-70 split based on urban-rural divide. Considering the price
of the product and the premium segment our client is targeting, I would like to focus on the urban
population which comes out to be 20 Crores. Urban population can be divided based on income
levels as 20-30-40-10, representing BPL, Lower Middle class, Upper Middle class and Rich class,
respectively. The client’s prospective customers would be the Upper Middle class and Rich Class
which comes out to be 10 Crores. Assuming 50% of 10 Crore women use face creams instead of a
full body moisturizer the target comes out to be 5 Crore. Does this number seem reasonable?
Seems fair.
Ok. Assuming 1 unit of the face cream lasts for 3 months, a person will buy it 4 times per year. Using
the above equation and the information provided, the profit comes out to be Rs. 500 Cr.
Great. Let's go to the next part.
Sure. Now I would like to look at the barriers to entry that our client might face and then the
operational feasibility.
I have identified some possible barriers for our client.
Regulatory – Might have to get an approval from the medical board or other relevant authority.
Inputs – Client might face hurdles in sourcing natural raw materials for manufacturing in India.
Market – The client might face headwinds due to the duopolistic nature of the market.
Before starting with the operational feasibility analysis, I would like to know whether our client plans
Page 942024-2025

===== PAGE 95 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Framework Summary
• The interviewee started with financial analysis and probed the interviewer for existing data; Barriers to entry were checked before operational feasibility to identify any constraints that the 
client might face; Barriers to exit is an unconventional addition to the market entry case
Key Learnings
• Market entry cases are exploratory in nature and require less guidance by the interviewer. The interview is primarily driven by the responses of the interviewee.
• Constant communication and asking the right preliminary questions to the interviewer is the key to not get lost in the case.
Your client is a skin care manufacturer in the U.S. They are contemplating whether they should enter India or not. Prepare a Go To Market
strategy for the client.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• It is important to ask the 
interviewer about the 
objective and metric for 
evaluation
• One should ask about the 
product or service with 
which the client wants to 
enter the market
• Always communicate 
your plan of action to the 
interviewer
• Cover all the conclusions 
under individual analysis 
while giving your final 
recommendations
Case Facts
• Client sells face 
cream and serums in 
U.S.
• Indian market 
dominated by two 
firms
• Product falls in the 
premium segment; 
has natural 
ingredients
• Hoping to capture 
10% on the market in 
the 1st year
• Price p.u. Rs. 2000
• V.C. p.u. Rs. 800
• F.C. Rs 100 Cr.
• Plans to manufacture 
in India
• Client has figured out 
the value chain
Market Entry
Financial 
Feasibility
Market 
Size
Page 95
Barriers to 
Entry
Operational 
Feasibility
Barriers to 
Exit
Market 
Share
Price –
V.C.
Fixed 
Cost
10% 2000 -
800
100 Cr.
130 Cr.
Women
65 Cr.
Urban
20 Cr.
Rural
45 Cr.
BPL
4 Cr.
Low M.C.
6 Cr.
Upper 
M.C.
8 Cr.
Rich
2 Cr.
10 Cr.
5 Cr.
Regulatory Inputs Market
Raw Material Manufacturing Logistics
DistributionConsumers
Regulatory Scale of 
Operations
*Can use PESTLE Analysis
*Customize value chain as per case
4
Skin Care Manufacturer
Market Entry | Beauty & Personal Care | Moderate | McKinsey Buddy Case 
2024-2025
Click here for: 
Panorama Report1 
Panorama Report 2

===== PAGE 96 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
EV Manufacturer – Interview Transcript
Market Entry | Automobiles | Moderate
Your client is an automotive company looking to launch into the EV space. They want you to help
them decide when they should start electric vehicle development.
I want to restate the requirement for clarity. My client is an automotive company that currently
does not have any product in the EV segment. They are looking to enter the same and want us to
determine the right time to do so.
Yes, that's correct. To elaborate further, they don't want to develop too early when there is
insufficient demand as there would be costs of unsold inventory. Neither do they want to miss the
early mover advantage. They want to time the launch as closely as possible with the rise in
demand.
Okay, can we assume that the client has done the necessary research and can accurately calculate
the time to market?
Yes, that's a fair assumption.
So, I'd like to start with a few preliminary questions. Which geographies does the client operate in?
What is the product portfolio of the client? What segments of the market do they currently
operate in, and what is the company's market share in each of them? What does the competitive
scenario look like?
For simplicity, assume there's just one market where your client commands 50% of the share in
the 4-wheeler category. The remaining is split almost equally among 3-4 competitors. The existing
product portfolio is not relevant to the case, so feel free to assume anything.
Since Got it. Is the new product being launched in the 2-wheeler or 4-wheeler segment?
It is going to be in the 4-wheeler segment.
All right. Since we want to time the launch with the rise in demand, I want to start by analyzing the
types of demand. I would split demand into want-based and mandated / need-based demand. The
former refers to the value derived from owning an EV, such as social status and/or public fame. In
contrast, the latter refers to demand generated due to mandatory laws or economic viability. Does
that look reasonable?
Yes, it does.
Great. So, we can now delve deeper. The want-based demand refers to the 'total value of
ownership' and is only relevant if owning an EV is not mainstream. Thus, it does not significantly
contribute to the kind of demand we're interested in; we can focus only on the need-based
demand.
That's a great insight. Please continue.
Okay, so need-based demand would reach desirable levels when the 'total cost of ownership' of an 
EV is lower than that of a regular vehicle. This will happen in two scenarios:
1. if there are government-implemented policies, which includes:
• Tax breaks on EVs 
• Fines on regular vehicles
2. if the natural cost of an EV falls below that of a regular vehicle
That makes sense. How do you want to proceed now?
Unless we have more information about government-implemented policies timelines, I would like to
proceed with analyzing it basis the natural cost of EV.
How can one calculate the natural cost of an EV?
So, we can split it into an initial fixed cost and a running variable cost. Fixed cost consists of the
purchase cost of the vehicle, while the running variable cost includes charging, power and
maintenance costs.
Good. Now imagine that an electronic car costs 50% more than a regular one, x, but has 1/3rd the
running cost, y (including power, maintenance etc.). What kind of consumer would prefer the EV?
Okay. In that case (3/2x + 1/3y) should be less than x + y. Solving the equation, 3/4x should be less
than y.
That makes sense. What is the inference that you can draw from this information?
The consumer would prefer an EV if the total cost is less than a regular one. On calculation, it is a
better decision if the consumer's lifetime usage of the car exceeds 3/4 times the ratio of the fixed
and running cost of the regular car (non-EV).
Sounds good. Let's end the case.
2024-2025 Page 96

===== PAGE 97 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Interviewee Notes
• It is important to ensure
that the launch does not
happen too early nor too
late
• Focus on mainstream
demand so that launch is
successful
Case Facts
• Client is an automotive
company in 4-wheeler
segment
• Commands 50% share
in 4-wheeler segment
currently
Recommendations
• The client should time the launch of the product based on mandated / need based demand as the want based demand would not be a sizeable demand
• The launch should happen when the consumer’s lifetime usage of the car exceeds 3/4 times the ratio of the fixed and running cost of the regular car
Observations / Suggestions
• The candidate has done a good job classifying the types of demand and further concentrating on mandate / need based demand which would be more commercially viable
• The candidate could have delved further into want based demand and its feasibility as it would open an opportunity for premium pricing during the initial phase of EV vehicles
Your client is an automotive company looking to launch into the EV space.
Market Entry | Automobiles | Moderate
Approach / Framework
Market Entry - Timing to 
launch the product
Types of Demand
Want based
Running 
variable cost
Initial fixed 
costs
EV Manufacturer
Mandated / Need based
Natural Cost of EV
2024-2025 Page 97
Click here for: 
Panorama Report 1
Panorama Report 2

===== PAGE 98 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Fintech in UAE Market – Interview Transcript
Page 98
Good. So, assume that the fixed costs are essentially zero because of an already established
technical business. Also, since the market is non-existent, we will need to estimate the market
size in dollar value. Let us estimate the profits for the first year.
I will start by estimating market size in terms of $ value.
Market size = Number of addressable customers * Number of transaction per customer * Value
per transaction per customer
For the number of customers, I will look at the population of UAE and adjust it for age, internet
penetration, smartphone penetration, bank account/credit card penetration.
Fair enough. Do you think your formula will give you the correct market size? This will only give 
you the value of transaction that happens on the platform and not the revenue.
Apologies. I think there will be an aspect of commission that the platform will make on every
transaction which needs to be incorporated.
Correct. Moving ahead, how do you think we can get a reliable estimate of the other 2
parameters?
Maybe we can look at average transaction size and no of orders per customer on our e-
commerce platform.
Don’t you think that will give us an overestimate. Remember that this product will essentially
replace your daily cash transactions at local mom and pop stores rather than e-commerce. Similar
to what we see in India with Paytm.
Ahh. Then we can use comparable by evaluating avg transaction size and no of orders per
customer for Paytm when they launched in India and adjust them for purchasing power parity and
higher per capita income in Dubai.
Ok. So, let's say that this gives us a very attractive market size.
Next, I would want to look at the market share that we can capture. Given the nascent industry
in UAE, we can benchmark market share achieved by similar products in similar markets such as
India or other gulf nation. For instance, market share that was captured by Paytm in 1st 5 years
Let us assume that this market makes sense economically for the firm to enter. What next would 
you suggest?
Since economic feasibility has already been established, I would now want to look at the
operational feasibility of the business. I would want to look at the entire value chain comprising of
Technology platform followed by merchants followed by consumers.
However, since we are operating in the financial space, before moving ahead I would like to know
if there is any regulatory barrier that I must be aware of?
Good point. So, the law of the land mandates that at least 51% of ownership must reside with a
UAE based bank.
That might throw challenges. I think we have 3 strategic options here:
1. Set up our own bank but that will be a time-consuming process and we might lose the first
mover advantage.
2. We can enter into a joint venture with one of the major banks
3. We can also acquire a UAE based bank, but our current financial position may not allow us
to do so.
Thus, Joint Venture seems to be the most feasible option here. However, a key risk that needs to
be highlighted here is we should have some sort of protection that stops these incumbents from
entering the fintech space.
Your client is a Dubai based E-commerce firm backed by Indian payments giant Paytm. The firm
wants to enter the fintech market in UAE and want your recommendation on this
What is the firm's objective behind this? Do we have any decision metric in mind that we can use
to evaluate such as revenue or profits target?
So, like any other business it wants to maximize its revenue. While the firm does not have a
specific revenue target it wants to maximize its ROI in the next 5 years.
Understood. Can you tell me a bit more about our client? When we say e-commerce is it similar
to Amazon or Flipkart?
Yes, the client is exactly like Amazon with majority of its operations in the gulf region.
Also how long have we been in the market and what is our position in the market currently?
The client was the first e-commerce firm in middle east and currently controls more than 50% of
the market which is valued at $10 bn. There are 3-4 other competitors, but they have less than
10% each market sure.
That means we are the market leader and have a dominating position. Now coming to the
business vertical, I am not much familiar with fintech space but what I understand is that it is a
very broad market with solutions such as insurance, wallet etc. Is there any specific product that
we want to launch with?
That’s a good question. We have 4 key verticals in mind: A wallet like Paytm, Micro lending card
for loans of small denominations, Stock-broker, Marketplace for insurance and credit cards. If we
have to decide only one out of the above 4, what do you think which one would be the most
relevant choice for the client?
Since we are the market leader in e-commerce, I will evaluate the above options based on (1)
Market size (2) Competitive landscape (3) Synergies with existing company. But before moving
ahead with this, I would want to know get more context on the fintech space in UAE.
UAE economy exactly like India is also driven by cash transactions accounting for more than 40%
of the transaction value. The fintech space is completely non-existent in the country. We will be
the first mover.
Really interesting. I would look at a payment wallet solution first. Given the market similarity to
India, this product will help us establish a market amongst the masses first and subsequently we
can introduce more specialized products. It will also help us facilitate payments on our
e-commerce platform and thus accelerate customer acquisition.
Excellent. What next?
So now I would want to evaluate the business from 2 perspectives:
1. Economic analysis to know how big is the market and what proportion I can capture
2. Operational feasibility where we look at how to establish the business and what can be the
key risks of venturing into this new space.
I would want to start with economic analysis first.
My expected profits will be equal to Market size * Market share.*Average contribution margin
minus the fixed costs/initial investment
Do we have any information on the market size that we are looking at or do I need to estimate
the same
Market Entry | BFSI | Challenging | Bain Buddy Case
2024-2025

===== PAGE 99 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Yes, Joint Venture seems to be the most appropriate step here. Our technical expertise in the
market will also be a unique value proposition for banks to partner with us.
Understood. Next, I would want to look at the creation of platform. Given that we are the
biggest e-commerce firm in UAE and are owned by a global fintech giant, creating the right
platform does not seem to be a major challenge.
Correct!
After this I would look at how we will onboard merchants on our platform. I will divide
merchants into 2 parts: New acquisition, Existing e-commerce platform merchants. I will target
the merchants associated with my e-commerce platform first which can act as the early adopters
of such a platform and spread word of mouth around it. On the other hand, to on-board local
mom and pop merchants, we can run incentive schemes like zero commission for first few days
via our sales force.
Ok.
Also, since it is a 2-sided platform, we will also have to ensure simultaneous addition of
customers on the platforms to appease both the parties. I will again target my existing e-
commerce customers first via cashback, discount offerings, loyalty programs etc.
However, in all our acquisition efforts we will have to pay considerable attention to possibility of
frauds which happened a lot with Paytm.
That’s a good insight. I think we have covered all the aspects of the value chain. We can stop
here.
Page 99
Market Entry | BFSI | Challenging | Bain Buddy Case
Fintech in UAE Market – Interview Transcript
2024-2025

===== PAGE 100 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a Dubai based e-commerce firm which wants to enter into the fintech space. They need your help to figure out how to do this?
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• It is important to understand 
the business model that 
company is going to launch 
and the current status of the 
business
• Analyze possible synergies 
that will shape company’s 
strategy
• Use similar market 
comparable and ratios to 
calculate market share, 
market size
• Establish the value chain for a 
general new age tech startup 
• Identify barriers to entry that 
company may face while entry 
specially for financial firms
Case Facts
• Client is the market leader 
in e-commerce 
• Client wants to enter into
the fintech space with a 
payments wallet product
• Market is nonexistent in 
UAE with no competition
• Client wants to find out 
the market 
potential/revenue for 1st
year
• The product works on a 
commission model
Market entry into 
Fintech
Economic 
Analysis
Operational
feasibility
Recommendations
• The client should enter the fintech market
Key learnings
• In such an open-ended case, be as exhaustive as possible for 
market size estimation and value chain setup.
• Always clarify the business model of the company and the new 
sector.
Page 100
Market size = Total addressable population × Number of transaction per year per customer × Avg transaction value
Ask for  comparable ratios from similar market to evaluate these
Population Age Filter Internet 
penetration
Smartphone 
penetration
Bank 
accounts 
penetration
Total 
Addressable 
Population
FEASIBILITY ANALYSIS: VALUE CHAIN SETUP & REGULATORY BARRIERS
Regulatory 
Barriers
Technological 
Platform
Customer 
Acquisition
Merchants 
acquisition
Local ownership 
requirement
Joint Venture
Acquisition
Own Bank
Market 
Share
Market 
Size
Acquiring existing 
customers and 
merchants
Acquiring new 
customers and 
merchants
Market Entry | BFSI | Challenging | Bain Buddy Case
Fintech in UAE Market
Click here for: 
Panorama Report1
Panorama Report 2
2024-2025

===== PAGE 101 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a European Airline who is facing stagnant growth in Europe and would like to 
explore Indian market. Please help them with this
Ok. I would like to further get to know about client. What kind of airline are they? Where all are 
they operating? What is their current market position? Do they have any particular target market 
to enter into India like domestic or international sector, low cost or premium etc.
Our client is a low-cost airline company in Europe. They are operating in most countries across 
Europe. They don’t have any market in mind, and you can suggest them the same.
What is the primary objective of our client? Do they have any profit objectives for entering India
They don’t have immediate targets but are looking for long term growth
Ok. I would also like to know current Indian market scenario. Can I assume it to be current 
market scenario in both domestic and international market?
Yes. The domestic market has majorly 5-6 players with Indigo having maximum market share. 
International market has multiple players with Air India having maximum share
Ok. I would like to layout my structure; I would first like to see financial attractiveness of the
market. If market is attractive enough, I would like to see operational feasibility in the market
where, I would first check if there are any major barriers preventing our entry and then check
how will we be able to establish the value chain. I would then like to look how we can enter the
market and any future risks we will face.
This structure looks good. Let’s look at financial feasibility first
In financial feasibility, I would like to analyze market size, market share and the profitability we
can achieve. I would also look at the growth of the market. As our client is already in low-cost
airline, I will first evaluate if the client should enter the Indian domestic market in low-cost
segment and then add the value of other opportunities like flights between India and Europe
Make sense. For simplicity, let’s assume that the client enters domestic market only. Also assume 
that the client first targets major cities only
Ok. To calculate market size, we can approach by calculating traffic on major airports by looking
at the number of flights taking off * # of passengers/flight*Price/ticket for a year from major
airports. Do we have any data regarding the market size, or should I calculate?
It's fine. Let's assume that market size is 50,000 crore.
Ok, now I would like to analyze the market share
What do you think about this market size. Is it attractive?
For that, I would like to know the current revenue of our business.
That is $5 BN
That is equal to 5*70*100 crores = 35,000 crores. I think the market is can be attractive if we are
able to capture good market share in it
Also, you forgot that growth is our primary objective. You didn’t ask earlier but we want a 
sustainable growth of 1-2% on our overall revenue
Ok. Do we have data about the growth of the Indian market. After calculating the market share, I
will verify if we are achieving the required growth or not.
Sure. The Indian market is growing at a rate of 20%
Ok. I will move onto market share. I would like to compare the markets we will target, the kind 
of facilities we will provide, the prices we will keep and if our brand name is known to Indian 
market. Do we have data for this.
The client currently haven’t planned this and would like your advice. How else can you calculate 
the market share?
India, being a low-income country, is price sensitive. So, we must keep competitive prices to gain 
market share. Also, as we are targeting major airports, so would be able to reach out to most 
customers. We can look into the last player that entered Indian market to benchmark market 
share
Good. Assume, Vistara to be a low-cost carrier and was the last entrant. They have been able to 
gain 5% market share. Apart from this, what other benchmarks can you investigate?
We can further look into if our client has entered any new territory like India and how they have 
performed there. Also, we can benchmark it with any other low-cost airline which entered any 
similar market.
Good. Let’s assume that you will be able to gain 5% market share
Sure. So now to see sustainable growth, we will be able to earn a revenue of 2,500 crores in 
Indian market that will grow minimum at Rs 500 crores per year assuming our market share 
remains the same. This means we have growth of around 500/35000 = 1.5%. Thus, this market 
share meets our target growth rate in Indian Market. I would now like to check the operational 
feasibility. First, do we know if we will be able to get license to operate in India
We will be able to get the license. Instead of going into operational feasibility, I would like to 
know the factors you will judge to decide How to Enter into Indian market
To enter into Indian market, we have 3 choices including enter on our own, enter through a joint 
venture and enter through M&A. To decide on these factors, we can look into cost, control, 
operational feasibility and time.
That sounds good. What are the options for us if we want to enter through M&A considering 
current Indian market scenario?
Currently, there are multiple airlines in India that will be ready to sell their stake. We ca look 
forward to invest in Jet Airways, Air India etc. which are looking for buyers.
Ok. So, let’s assume that we will buy Jet Airways. The cost required for acquisition is $1 billion. 
Can you evaluate this investment amount?
Do we have required cost of capital and profitability of business?
Assume cost of capital to be 8% and profit margins to be 10% and time period to be 10 year
So, as we calculated earlier, we will be able to generate 2,500 crores of revenue in year 1 which 
will grow by the rate of 20%. This means that we have profits of 250 crores in 1st year followed 
by 300, 360, and so on at an investment of 7000 crores. Thus, we can calculate NPV and payback 
period to establish if the investment makes sense or not
But you forgot to take in the factor of increase in market share due to acquisition
Oh yes. We also have to see how brand name of Jet airways can help us in acquiring more 
market, thus increasing our revenues.
We can close the case now
European Airline – Interview Transcript
Market Entry | Growth Objective | Aviation | Challenging
Page 101
Market Entry | Growth Objective | Aviation | Challenging | Bain Buddy Case
2024-2025

===== PAGE 102 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Approach/ Framework Interviewee Notes
• Important to ask about 
any qualitative and 
quantitative objectives 
especially about growth
• Define the scope of the 
problem as it was open 
ended
• Identify company’s current 
type of airline, operational 
countries, market 
position, revenue etc.
• Competitor scenario in 
the Indian market
Case Facts
• Client is European low-cost 
airline who want to analyse
Indian market
• One of the big brand in Europe, 
want to focus on growth in 
revenue through Indian market
• Open to options of entering 
into different sectors in the 
airline market
• Open to suggestions about how 
to position the product, price 
the product etc.
Recommendations
• The airline should enter the Indian market as it is meeting the 
growth targets it have from entering the Indian market
• The airline should not acquire Jet airways as overall NPV of the 
project is negative
• The airline can enter into the market by itself or look fir the Joint 
Venture, whichever’s NPV is greater
Your client is a European Airline who is facing stagnant growth in Europe and would like to explore Indian market. Please help them with this
Financial Feasibility
Current Market
• Market Size - Calculating 
domestic airline size 
(bottleneck approach) –
50,000 Crores
• Growth – 20%
Market Share (5%)
• Major players
• Market share/position
• Product USP, Price, 
Airports (Place), Brand
• Benchmark – Last entrant, 
similar country, similar 
entrant
Major barriers to entry
• Government Regulation
• License Rules
• FDI rules
Value chain setup and 
Risks
• Government License
• Airport setup and gates 
permissions
Infra development
• Employees
• Sales Channel
Options
• Self
• Joint Venture
• M&A
Evaluation Criteria
• Cost
• Control
• Operational ease
• Time
Operational Feasibility How to Enter & Entry 
Decision
Page 102
European Airline
Financial Evaluation
• NPV
• Payback
• IRR
Key Learnings
• Market entry generally don’t come with growth objective. Keep the objective in mind while asking 
interview questions and check once if there is any quantitative targets interviewer is looking for
• Conclude each analyses once it is completed. E.g. After market sizing, conclude if the market size is good, 
bad or should be further analysed depending on share
• Apart from analysing 4P wrt competitors in market share, do a benchmarking analyses to try to come up 
with better market share percentage
• Recheck earlier calculations if any new information is provided in the analyses (E.g. Jet Airways Brand)
• Don’t worry is the case is long. Always keep your patience and look at each bucket individually
Growth
50000*5%*20*/35000
Market Entry | Growth Objective | Aviation | Challenging | Bain Buddy Case
Click here for 
Panorama Report!
2024-2025

===== PAGE 103 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
 Page 103
Fantasy Gaming App – Interview Transcript
Your client is an Indian digital gaming company that wants to enter the fantasy gaming space.
They have approached you to evaluate the venture and determine the feasibility of their entry
strategy.
Sure, I would like to the client’s reason for venturing into the fantasy gaming space.
The client has existed in the digital gaming space for 7 years and is witnessing a stagnant user
growth rate of 2% annually. They want to capitalize on the new fantasy sports market growing
at 20% annually.
Okay. Can I know what kind of digital offering the client currently provides?
The client has a casino app with games such as Poker, Roulette, and Blackjack.
Great, now I would also like to know how the company generates revenue through this app.
The app makes money from advertisements and in-app purchases for game coins. The
regulations don’t allow real money to be used in the app as that would be considered illegal
(gambling). The client is cash-strapped due to revenue stagnation & increased marketing costs
to fight similar apps.
Okay. Is there any information available about market and segments, say, basis age groups?
Sure, there are about 10M potential users, 35% of which are less than 18 years old, 50% are in
the bracket 18-50, and 15% are 50+.
Can I know what the client plans to offer with the new fantasy gaming app? Also, are they
considering using real money, unlike the previous application?
The client wants to focus on fantasy football during the first year. You are correct in assuming
they can use currency to build teams and play against different players, per new legal guidelines.
However, users must complete the KYC process before joining. The app takes a 10% cut per
game.
Thanks for that. Can I also know about the other players in the fantasy gaming industry?
It’s a nascent market. However, 5-6 players have a similar offering but exclusively to cricket.
With that, I would want to know the entry strategy the client is considering.
They offer Rs. 200 worth of coupons to the players on the casino app to try the new game.
Users can link their mobile wallets and use the coupon to add money to the app. They can
redeem it after a stipulated time, given that they’ve played enough games. Why don’t you tell
me how you begin evaluating this move if the client wants to recuperate this investment in one
year?
I would first check the financial feasibility of this strategy and then highlight the operational
risks.
Please go ahead.
For this strategy to be economically feasible, the 1st year’s revenue should equal the total
amount invested in the coupons to break even.
Yes, you are right in this assessment. Please proceed using this approach.
Sure, I would take the relevant market size from the casino app. The factors I would consider
(in order) are – a) Eligibility b) Awareness c) Affordability
Sounds good. Please help me with these factors and the further process.
Sure. Out of the 10M users, I would determine those who can legally play on this app due to
underlying factors like age and KYC documentation. Since fantasy gaming is only legal for those
above 18, we can only consider 65% of users. Out of these 6.5M users, I would look at how
many users are interested in football, so they’ll be motivated to play the game. Then I will
consider affordability constraints. Can I know if any data is available regarding the same?
Yes, using similar apps’ benchmarks, we can assume that 20% of users will churn out.
It leaves us with ~400k users. I will now calculate ARPU. Do we have any information for the
same?
The estimated average user spend is Rs. 1500 per month.
Sure. The app makes 10% per game. For the whole year, this translates to Rs. 1800 per user.
The total revenue is 1800 * 400k = Rs. 720 M. The total cost is based on the total obtainable
market is 200 * 6.5M = Rs. 1300 M. This strategy isn’t feasible if the client’s objective is to break
even in the 1st year.
Let’s assume the client decides to go ahead with this strategy even with an extended payback
period. How would you evaluate the operational risks associated with this move?
I would categorize risks as app-related and external risks. For the app-related issues, I would
classify them into 3 more buckets – a) Pre-customer acquisition b) During c) Post-acquisition to
explain the risks leading to customer attrition. For a) we consider product risks and financial
risks. Product risks include complicated redemption process or unattractive coupon amount,
underwhelming user reviews on the app store disincentivizing potential users, and low product
visibility. Financial risks include a high capital requirement and substantial fixed costs before the
app is operational.
Sure, let’s also consider phase during operation as well.
Great. During phase can be segmented into product-related, and competitor-related risks.
Product risks include a bad interface, app crashes, loss of user data & security concerns, and
complex transaction process. Competitor-related risks can be similar apps imitating the
product, scams resembling the product, and bigger players extending their offerings to include
football.
Sounds good enough. What about the external risks?
Sure. The external risks can be bucketed into Legal, Social, and Technological risks. Legal risks
concern authorities and regulations around fantasy gaming and using real money. Social risks
include social backlash, bad press, users gaming the system to redeem rewards without
participating, etc. Technological risks include internet penetration, app availability on different
platforms, computation speed and efficiency expectations.
Great, I think we can end the case here.
Thank you for your time.
With a few surveys conducted in the past, the client determined that almost 20% of casino app
users followed football regularly and were interested in fantasy sports.
Sure. It leaves us with 1.3M users. However, we should only account for the users who can
afford to bear the financial risk of wagering their own money after the coupon amount is used.
The client estimates this number to be 40%. Very quickly, what factors do you think govern this
ratio?
There can be multiple reasons such as – age group (elderly tend to have low levels of leisure
spending), income group (low and very high-income groups would not be able or interested in
spending in the app), confidence in knowledge of football, time available to keep up with the
game, etc.
Sounds fair. Please go ahead with your analysis.
Accounting for all of these, 520k users is our obtainable market. Some users would not be
sticking for the whole year. Do we have any estimates for the churn rate?
Market Entry | Consumer Tech | Challenging
2024-2025

===== PAGE 104 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
 Page 104
Operational RisksInterviewee Notes
• This case needs a
quantitative analysis to
evaluate the entry decision
• The client has the option to
leverage their position in
the digital gaming space to
enter into fantasy gaming
space
• Decision has to evaluated
on the basis of economic
feasibility
Case Facts
• Client already exists in the
digital gaming space
• Client wishes to offer Rs.
200/user to try new app
• Values of filters related to 
affordability, availability 
and eligibility provided
• Market research suggests
that an average users
monthly spend is Rs. 1500
Recommendations
• Since the objective of breaking even in 1st year is not being met, the venture
should not be undertaken
• With an extended payback period, risks both internal to the product as
well as the market risks need to be considered
Key Learnings
• Considering that the decision is based on quantitative analysis, it is important to extract all the numerical
data from the interviewer
• Be communicative and run the approach through the interviewer before initiating calculations to address any
concerns the interviewer might have post-analysis
Guesstimate
Your client is an Indian digital gaming company that wants to enter the fantasy gaming space.
Age
Openness to
fantasy sports
Interest in Football
Affordability
Old app users
>18 years
Interested in 
fantasy sports
Not interested 
in fantasy sports
Willing to use 
money
Not willing to 
use money
<18 years
Income
Drivers
Time availability
Age group
App related risks 
(Internal)
External risks
Pre-acquisition
During
PESTEL Analysis
Product risks
Financial risks
Product risks
Competitor risks Social
Technological
Legal
Fantasy Gaming App
Market Entry | Consumer Tech | Challenging
Click here for 
Panorama Report!
2024-2025

===== PAGE 105 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Assume it is the year 1609. The prolific Italian scientist Galileo Galilei has recently invented the
telescope, and is considering launching the product in the Spanish kingdom. He has consulted you
to advise him on whether he should do so or not.
Interesting! I would like to start off by understanding Galileo’s motivation behind this move. Is he
looking for any specific financial target over some time period from this venture?
This invention is the first of its kind, and Galileo merely wants to advance the cause of science to
as many people as possible. He has no financial target in mind.
Understood. Based on what I know about modern-day telescopes, my guess is that Galileo’s
telescope is an instrument perhaps made of metal and glass and used for astronomical
observations. Is this a fair understanding? Are there any other features I should be aware of?
That’s an accurate guess! Additionally, you may know that the product is around 4-5 feet in height
and can be used by a single, untrained person.
Alright. Is there any specific reason for Galileo to consider the Spanish Kingdom?
The Spanish Kingdom hosts a large proportion of population of Europe.
Okay, one final question – does Galileo has any prior experience in market entry?
He does not, in fact this is the first of his products he is looking to commercialize.
I have enough background information to proceed. My overall approach would be to break the
problem into two parts – first, I would want to assess the worthwhileness of this venture in by
computing the market size in terms of potential customers. Second, I will assess the feasibility of
setting up and operating this venture. Does this seem like a fair overall approach?
crudely considered as having approximately the same area as a large Indian state such as
Maharashtra. Population density of Spain will, however be significantly smaller than most Indian
states. I don’t have exact data at hand, but is this overall approach reasonable?
Good rationale. For simplicity, you may consider the present area and density of Maharashtra as
300,000 km2 and 400 /km2. Take the Spanish Kingdom’s area to be 50% larger than Maharashtra.
Spain’s population density can be taken as 25% of Maharashtra.
Alright, with this data, the Spanish Kingdom population is calculated as 1.5*300,000*400*0.25*
1/16 = 3 Mn approx. Therefore, total market size = 3,000,000*0.5*0.3*0.05 = 22,500 potential
customers. Without considering affordability, is Galileo satisfied with serving this market?
Yes, this is an attractive market size for the client. You can proceed with your analysis.
After assessing the market size, I shall now look at the feasibility of entering and operating in this
business and assess any barriers. I will break my analysis into three parts – pre-entry, at-entry and
post-entry. Does that sound good?
Yes, let’s quickly run through each.
Yes, you may proceed with the market sizing.
Alright. I am taking a demand-side approach, starting from the population of the Spanish Kingdom
and apply filters to arrive at the market size. The filters I have in mind are gender, affordability
and interest in astronomy. If these seem fine to you, I’ll construct a formula for the same.
Why would gender be relevant? Also, how will you find the % people interested in astronomy?
Unfortunately, in the 1600s, education for women was discouraged. Thus, assuming that literacy
is a base requirement for interest in astronomy, we can exclude women from the target market.
Among men, I will find the % people interested in astronomy by considering two nested factors -
% literate, % interested in astronomy among the literate.
Alright, that sounds like a fair approach. For the purposes of this case, you may ignore the filter of
affordability. What percentage values will you take for all other filters?
We can assume a 50% gender ratio. Literacy was lower back then as compared to even
developing nations in the modern day (which have around 60% literacy), thus we can take a
literacy rate of maybe 30%. Sciences were not as popular back then as they are now, and
astronomy is just one discipline among many sciences. Thus, I would take a very small fraction,
perhaps 5% or 10% to account for those interested in astronomy among literates. Does this
sound reasonable to you, or should I rework my estimates?
You may take 5% for the filter for interest in astronomy and proceed.
Great! Now that we have all the filters in place, we need the population of the Spanish Kingdom
in 1609. Do we have data around that?
I would be interested to see how you go about estimating that population.
Alright. I’m not totally sure how to go about that, but a basic approach is the following. Using the
formula, Population = Area*Density, I’ll first estimate Spain’s present-day population. Then, by
considering an appropriate growth rate, I’ll compute the Spanish kingdom’s population for 1609.
I’m assuming that the Spanish kingdom and present-day Spain have the same area, is that alright?
Good approach! Assume a doubling of population of every 100 years. You may use proxy data
based on your knowledge about the world to compute Spain’s area and density.
Great! Based on my limited understanding of geography, a typical European country may be
Pre-entry, there can be financial and non-financial hurdles. Financial hurdles could arise from a
lack of funds to set up the value chain. Non-financial hurdles could be in the form of regulations -
17th century Europe was dominated by the Church, which could oppose a scientific invention.
Let’s assume that Galileo has enough money, and plans to, set up the entire value chain on his
own. The point about Church interference is valid – it could pose a real threat to the business.
Noted. To assess at-entry feasibility, I’ll evaluate the entire value chain, by breaking it down into
three parts – production, distribution & retail, marketing & aftersales.
In production, the main issue would be to evaluate if the client has, or will be able to procure,
key resources, including raw materials, equipment, land for production, and human capital.
In distribution & retail, we look at four aspects – storage, transportation, distributors/salesforce,
retailers. Proper storage would entail availability of facilities and labour for safe warehousing of
raw materials or finished goods. Safe transportation facilities will be key due to long, inter-
country travels and the value and fragility of the product. We would also require partnerships
with third-party distributors/have employees of our own, in addition to having a sales force, to
push our product in the Spanish market. We might need to offer incentives to retailers as well.
For marketing the product well, initial discounts may be offered to end customers. The client
could also tie-up with renowned scientific institutions who might display and promote this
product. I’m not exactly aware of how advertising was done back then, but we could leverage
traditional media of communication such as print. Is this a fair breakdown of at-entry barriers?
This is a good analysis. All these outlined requirements can be put in place, although special care
would be needed to tackle safety issues during storage and transportation.
Noted. We could have measures around packaging and proper stacking to avoid damage.
Moving on to post-entry hurdles - although this is a novel invention, there is a possibility of other
inventors replicating it. The concern of religious backlash may arise even post entry.
All good points. Religious backlash is a major concern and threatens crippling our business, if not
also risk the lives of value chain participants. Can you think of any solutions to tackle this risk?
Hmm, the client could position the telescope as a product that will boost trade and tax revenues
for the Kingdom. We can also try and lobby with Ministers or other major trade entities within
the Spanish cabinet. Furthermore, we can try and think of other use cases, such as military and
seafaring, where the telescope could be used after some repurposing. This will not only result in
goodwill with the monarchy who might support us in case the Church opposes, but also help
diversify into multiple use cases, aiding from a long-term growth point of view.
Alright, that will be all. Thank you for your inputs.
Galileo’s Telescope – Interview Transcript
Market Entry | Manufacturing | Challenging | BCG 
2024-2025 Page 105

===== PAGE 106 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Key Learnings
• Crucial to understand the objective of the move, and the context of the case in an unconventional setup
• Guesstimation using proxy data is an important tool, be prepared to deploy it in suitable scenarios
• Important to be prepared to revise one’s memorized values for filters during guesstimation, as the case could be set in a com pletely different context as compared to the present day
• In case you aren’t aware of certain things, it’s totally okay to take help from the interviewer and solve the case in a conve rsational mode
Your client is Galileo Galilei. He has invented a telescope and has sought your advice regarding introducing this product in the Spanish Kingdom.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes Case Facts
 Market Entry
Market 
Attractiveness
Galileo’s Telescope
Page 106
Feasibility 
Analysis
Market 
Sizing Pre-Entry At-Entry Post-Entry
Population of Spanish 
Kingdom in 1609
Gender 
Filter
Literacy 
Filter
Interest in 
Astronomy Filter
Market Size
(# potential customers)
Area of Spain 
(present)
Population density 
of Spain (present)
Factor to account for 
population growthX X
Estimate using proxy data of present-day countries/states
Feasibility Analysis
Pre-Entry At-Entry
Financial:
Funds availability
Non-financial: 
Regulations
Production Distribution & 
Retail
Marketing & 
Aftersales
Raw materials, 
land, labour, 
equipment
Storage, transport, 
distributors, 
salesforce, retailers
Discounts, tie-
ups, advertising
Post-Entry
Product 
Replication
Religious 
Backlash
• Crucial to understand the 
context (client, product, 
customers, regulations etc) 
given that case not set in 
present day
• For similar reasons as 
above, it is especially 
important to clarify each 
assumption with the 
interviewer
• Use proxy data to estimate 
population. Clarify method, 
take help of interviewer if 
required
• Establish exhaustive value 
chain to evaluate barriers
• Europe, 1609
• Client is inventor Galileo 
Galilei
• First-of-its kind telescope 
to be introduced in the 
Spanish Kingdom
• Client looking to evaluate 
if a sizable number of 
potential customers exist
• No financial targets, 
limitations with respect 
to investment
Recommendation
Client should enter the Spanish market, subject to the 
following caveats:
• Safe handling of fragile & valuable product can be arranged
• Soft measures such as lobbying, repositioning can be put in 
place, to reduce risk of religious backlash
We also recommend the client perform a thorough financial 
analysis to better assess long-term viability of the venture.        
Market Sizing
Market Entry | Manufacturing | Challenging | BCG 
2024-2025

===== PAGE 107 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client, a foreign petrochemical company, produces 5 chemicals; C1: Methane, C2: Ethane, C3:
Propene, C4: Butane, C5: Benzine, and other aromatics. It wants to enter the Indian Market. Help the
client make this decision.
I would like to ask a few clarifying questions before I begin to analyse the case. Can you help me
understand a little bit about the company and its value chain? I understand that crude oil would be one
of the raw materials, but can you help me with the details of the process?
The five products that I mentioned are made from naphtha, a by-product in the production of diesel
and kerosene from crude oil. So yes, crude oil is the primary raw material, but there are several
processes after it.
I also wanted to understand our objective for entering the Indian Market?
The client wants to expand its operations. The Indian petrochemical industry is quite attractive as it
grew at a rate of 8% before Covid.
Are we looking at any specific benchmark the company expected to meet in the Indian market in terms
of profit/revenue?
No benchmark as of now, they are just pursuing expansion
I would also like to understand the scope of operations of the business and their current location
The client is located in Europe and has its operation across various countries in Europe.
Okay I would like to switch to some market related questions now. How is the Indian petrochemical
market in terms of competition? Are there several competitors? Can you help me with their scope and
size too?
The Indian petrochemical market is very competitive; it has 2 significant players with 50% market share
and 8 other players who occupy the balance 50% market share.
My hypothesis is that operations for the firm usually take place in a B2B set-up. Therefore, their
customers would mostly be heavy metal industries and other companies. Can you help me with what
their customer portfolio will look like if they enter the Indian Market?
That is right. Its customers will be automobile, textile, construction, and electronic companies.
Please give me a minute to structure my thoughts on how to go about solving the case.
I believe we are still at a Go/No-Go stage in the decision-making process here. I would like to analyze
three questions
How attractive the Indian Petrochemical business - understanding the market scenario,
including the condition/status of competitors, supplementary products, substitutes and complementary
products.
Financial feasibility - analyzing the costs, both capital investment and operational costs, and revenue
streams.
Operational feasibility - laying down a detailed value chain of this entire process.
Lastly, I would like to understand barriers to entry, mode of entry, and any other risks and challenges
Your framework looks comprehensive, but why don’t we ignore financial feasibility and focus more on
the operational aspects of the client.
Yes sure. Should I first assess the general market attractiveness, or dive straight into operational
aspects?
You can proceed with assessing the market attractiveness.
I would look at the qualitative factors (the growth drivers) to understand the scope and growth
prospects of this business. The growth drivers for this business would be the contribution of the customer
industries (automobile, textile, construction and electronic) to the GDP, fuel prices, foreign exchange
rates, the growth rate of petrochemical industry, etc.
If these factors are good, I would move ahead with the plan
All these seem to be in favor of the client, so you can move on to the value chain aspects now.
I would structure the Value Chain in the following manner
Research & Development & Market Survey –> Establishment of plant and machinery –> procurement of
crude oil –> procurement of other inputs –> inbound logistics –> quality check of crude oil and
preliminary cleaning –> manufacturing of petrol and diesel and then acquiring naphtha- manufacturing of
petrochemicals (C1 to C5) as by products in the process–> quality and safety check –> storage –>
outbound logistics –> disposal of waste –>customer service.
At each of these stages I would I would like to understand if there are any internal or external constraints.
In internal constraints I would estimate the nature and number of resources required (labor, machinery,
expertise), and does the firm have these capabilities. In external constraints I would like at government
regulations. Do you want me to dig deeper in one of the elements of the value chain or should I
investigate each one by one?
This looks good. I would now want you to analyze what factors should the client consider while
deciding the location of the plant.
I would like to bifurcate the factors into qualitative and quantitative factors.
Qualitative factors: The company should not be in the residential area. Moreover, it should be located
in an area where they can employ the local workforce. Since crude oil is mostly imported in India, it would
be a good idea to locate the plant near the ports.
Quantitatively, the cost of the land, logistics cost and taxes and duties must be considered before
deciding the location of the factory.
This seems fine. Can you also help me out with the capital investment as well. The petrochemical industry
requires a major machinery known as the cracker machinery which costs Rs. 150 crores. Please help the
client allocate this cost to the outputs from the business. You can allocate costs to the 5 petrochemicals.
Sold by our client
We can follow any of the 3 different approaches to allocate the machinery cost to the products.
1. Volume based allocation: The total cost will be allocated in the ratio of the volume of chemicals
produced from the process.
2. Price based allocation: The market price of the final products can be used as a benchmark to
allocate the fixed cost. Ratio of the selling prices can be used. Since in the beginning of the case you had
mentioned that the Market is extremely competitive, the client would be a price taker and not a price
maker, hence it can allocate machinery costs based on the market prices.
3. Contribution based allocation: Like the 2nd method but here the variable costs of the products, if
varying are also taken into consideration. This doesn’t seem to be the case here since all are by products
of the same process. Hence, I would either like to go with the first or the second approach but since it is
a commodities market, I would prefer the first one over the second.
Good. What factors would you consider while choosing the supplier of naphtha/crude oil?
I would like to segment the factors into 2 parts; Financial aspects and Operational aspects. Under
financial aspects the input cost of crude oil along with the total cost of production of naphtha, if we
start from the beginning of the value chain. Costs can be further categorized as cost of oil, import duties,
logistics cost.
Under operational aspects the client must focus on the terms of contract which will cover, flexibility in
dealings, timings, credit terms, etc.
Petrochemical company – Interview Transcript
Market Entry | Petrochemical | Challenging
Page 1072024-2025

===== PAGE 108 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Waste Disposal
Your client, a foreign petrochemical company, produces 5 chemicals; C1: Methane, C2: Ethane, C3: Propene, C4: Butane, C5: Benzine, and
other aromatics. It wants to enter the Indian Market. Help the client make this decision.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Client in petrochemical 
industry – produces 5 
chemicals (C1-C5)
• Client currently based in 
Europe- wants to enter the 
Indian market
• Pursuing no specific 
benchmarks, but an expansion 
motive
Case Facts
• The Indian market is very 
competitive; i2 significant players 
with 50% market share and 8 other 
players with 50% market share.
• B2B set-up. Clients include 
automobile, textile, construction, and 
electronic companies.
Financial Feasibility 
Recommendations
• The client should enter the market, given there are no government regulations, and they have enough resources
• They should choose a location, that is proximate to raw materials, customers and ports
• They should allocate machinery costs basis volume of chemicals, as variable costs don’t vary much to effect contribution
Observations / Suggestions
• The candidate did a good job in keeping their structure versatile enough to accommodate the questions asked by the interviewer
• The structure adopted by the candidate was very comprehensive. Perhaps even a simpler version of the value chain would suffic e
Market 
Attractiveness
Analysis of growth 
drivers: 
• fuel prices
• exchange rates
• size of customer 
industries
Petrochemical company – Interview Transcript
Page 108
Market Entry | Petrochemical | Challenging
Cost Revenue
Streams
Operational 
Feasibility
Capital 
Investment
Operational 
Costs
Volume 
based Price based Contribution 
based
Allocating 
machine cost
Value chain
Firm’s 
capabilities
Resources
Required  Regulations
Market Entry
Research & 
Development
Plant & 
Machinery
Inbound 
Logistics
Quality Check 
& Cleaning
Customer 
Service
Quality & Safety 
CheckStorage
Procurement of 
Inputs
Outbound 
Logistics
Manufacturing
Internal 
Constraints
External 
Constraints
Click here for 
Panorama Report!
2024-2025

===== PAGE 109 =====

Pricing 
cases


===== PAGE 110 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a Heli air service provider. How would you price this service? Is it a viable business?
Alright. First of all, I would like to understand what exactly is a Heli air service and where is the
client planning to operate it?
Heli air service is a helicopter service for inter-city transport. The client is planning to operate it in
Delhi. The service would be from the airport to two different ports at the two ends of the city
Are they operating anywhere else?
Yes, the client has operations in London, Paris and New York
Is there any specific reason for choosing India?
They are excited about the growth opportunities in India and feel that it is the right time to enter
the market
Are there any existing players in the market?
No
We plan to rent it and start with one helicopter.
Ok. Other fixed costs would be the airport charges, maintenance charges, salaries of the employees,
insurance cost etc. The main variable cost would be the fuel cost. Do we have data about the costs?
The cost of renting the helicopter is Rs 16 Lakhs per month. Airport charges us Rs 2 Lakh per
month while the salaries of the employees come out to be Rs 4 Lakhs per month. The other
overheads are around Rs 1 Lakh per month. The helicopter uses 60 Liters per hour. The cost of the
fuel is Rs 75/liter.
I would like to estimate the minimum amount that our client would need to charge in order to break
even. Our fixed costs come out to be Rs 23 Lakhs per month. The cost of the fuel would depend on
the number of trips that we would take in a day. Is there a fixed number of trips that we are
planning?
Then our main competition is with existing services like cab or metro. How are we placed in
comparison to these services?
What according to you are the advantages of the proposed service?
The major advantage would be in terms of time saved and the luxury and convenience
That’s right. The travel time would reduce to half.
OK. Now coming to the pricing part there are 3 possible pricing strategies that we can look into
1) Cost based pricing
2) Competitor based pricing
3) Value based pricing
Since we do not have a direct competitor, I would like to focus on cost based and value-based
pricing. Is there a particular strategy that you would like me to start with?
Why don’t we start with the costs? What are the major costs involved?
The cost can be divided into fixed and variable. One of the major fixed cost would be for the
helicopter. Are we planning to buy a new helicopter, lease it or get it from another market where
we currently operate? How many helicopters are we planning to get?
No, why don’t you calculate the optimum amount
You mentioned that our heliair service would go to the two ends of the city. On taking a cab it 
would take around 2 hours to reach. The helicopter would cover the distance in 1 hour. Since we 
only have 1 helicopter, we would need to alternate between the two ports. After completing 1 trip 
we would need to have a break both for the pilot and the helicopter. Thus, I would like to assume 
that we can complete the whole trip in 2.5 hours and be ready for the next one.
Go Ahead
We can complete 4 round trips per day. The helicopter would be in use for 8 hours. Thus, the cost 
comes out to be Rs 36,000 per day. How many days in a month are we planning to operate it?
25 days
Then the total cost would be Rs 9 Lakhs per month. Thus, to break even we would need at least Rs 
32 Lakhs per month from the passengers. We have a total of 100 trips in a month. Can I assume the 
helicopter would accommodate around 4 people?
Yes
Even if we get 100% occupancy for all our flights, we will need to charge the people Rs 8000 per trip 
just to break even which is a pretty high cost. I would like to do a sanity check to make sure that the 
number is in the right range. The only Heli air service I know is for Vaishno Devi which costs 
around Rs 1100 for a 5-minute ride. Thus, it would be around Rs 13,200 for 60 minutes however 
since the fixed costs don’t change with increase in length of trip Rs 8000 seems to be a good 
estimate. This contrasts with taking a cab would cost around Rs 800 thus they are paying 10 times 
the amount. For this to be a viable option their time should be worth at least Rs 7200 per hour. This 
is true only for the very rich people who can buy their own helicopter and would thus have no need 
for our service. Thus, I don’t think that it is a viable business.
Well done
Helicopter Service – Interview Transcript
Pricing | Transportation | Moderate 
2024-2025 Page 110

===== PAGE 111 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a Heli air service provider. How would you price this service? Is it a viable business?
Interviewee Notes
• First service of such 
kind thus there are 
no competitors
• Operating in Delhi
• 2 ports will be 
operated to the two 
different ends of the 
city
• Time would reduce 
to half 
Case Facts
• The cost of renting the 
helicopter is Rs 16 Lakhs per 
month. 
• Airport charges us Rs 2 
Lakh per month 
• Salaries of the employees 
are Rs 4 Lakhs per month
• The other overheads are 
around Rs 1 Lakh per month
• The helicopter uses 60 
Liters per hour. The cost of 
the fuel is Rs 75/liter 
Recommendations
• Understand the client’s business and his expectations through clarifying questions before going on with the structure
• It is important to analyze all the possible pricing strategies. Here the service has a value-based price, but the cost is so high that it becomes unviable
• Do sanity checks wherever possible
Cost based
Variable Costs
Fixed Costs
Competitor based Value based
Other helicopter 
services             
(upper price limit)
Cross city taxis/cabs 
(Lower price limit)
Helicopter Service
Approach/ Framework
Key Learning
• Use of capacity constraints i.e., time limitations to estimate number of trips
• Value based approach used to evaluate upper and lower bounds for price (using similar services as proxies)
Pricing | Transportation | Moderate 
Pricing
Click here for: 
Panorama Report 1
Panorama Report 2
2024-2025 Page 111

===== PAGE 112 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client has found a new transportation machine that can travel to any place in just 5 minutes. 
The machine is housed in Mumbai. They need your help in deciding how to price this machine?
I would like to start by getting a more clearer understanding of the client and the product. What 
are the other products offered by the client? What are the geographies in which this machine will 
operate? How many machines with how much capacity is the service going to start with?
The client is has decided to enter into the aviation industry. There is only one machine will start 
operations on a circuit with 11 stops across the world, in all the major cities. The machine has 5 
business class seats and 15 economy seats .
So is it fair to assume that the machine takes 5 minutes between all successive locations and so it 
makes 1 round trip back to Mumbai in 1 hour? Does it operate only for fixed hours?
Yes, 1 hour for a round trip and 1 hour to cool down after each trip. It operates 24 hours/day.
Alright, having now a fair understanding of the product proposition, I would like to lay down the 
approach. Several pricing approaches can be looked at, depending on the pricing objective of the 
client - market share, profits or generating more demand?
Absolutely, the objective of the client is to generate sustainable and continuous demand for the 
service.
Then I would suggest we look at the Value based and competitor based approach for pricing this 
service. I would look at customers in 2 classes for business and economy for each of these.
Please go ahead with both, starting with the value based approach.
Sure! Under value-based approach, we can look at Willingness to Pay by evaluating the
opportunity cost of having no product and also consider the supply-demand ratio to evaluate
initial pricing range.
Please assume that there is enough demand for the product for it to reach high to full capacity 
utilisation and as for supply it is constrained with 1 machine of 20 seats.
Okay. Then we can look at the willingness to pay for each of the 2 customer classes. I would like
to assume here that the business class for this service would constitute the people who own
private jets or travel by chartered planes, while the economy class would the business class
passengers of normal flights. Is that a fair assumption?
Assuming a uniform distribution of passengers across the potential lengths of trip, we can say that the 
average duration spent in the machine would be 30 mins. Hence, the time saved would be 11.5 hours, 
which if estimated from income levels is $13K for the business class and $700 for the economy class. If 
this estimation seems fair, I would move on to the competitor based approach.
Yes, these numbers look fine, go ahead.
Under competitor based approach, we will look at the reference price of both the customer classes in 
terms of what they are paying currently. Does that sound okay?
Yes. Please proceed.
For the business class, the people who normally own private jets, the annual cost of operating a jet is 
$1 Mn. Assuming that on average, this private jet is used twice a week, we can say that across a year it 
is used for almost 100 trips. This gives us an estimate of around $10K for one trip. For the economy 
class, the usual business class ticket on average costs $2K. If these calculations seem fair, I can go ahead 
with suggesting a price range.
Yes, these look fair. Please go ahead.
So for business class, given the usual cost of 1 trip on a private jet is $10K and there are savings worth 
$13K being incurred, we can price it at the lower of two, around $10K for now, and look at demand 
response before potentially planning for any changes. For the economy class, with the usual cost of $2K 
and savings worth $700, we can price mid-way, somewhere around $1300, keeping this as the average 
cost.
Superspeed travel – Interview Transcript
Pricing | Transportation | Moderate 
Will you charge a flat price to each consumer or will you recommend using any other pricing method?
Charging a flat price might not be the best idea, since not all customers will travel through all 
destinations. Instead, the price of $10K for the business class and $1300 for the economy class can be 
kept as base prices. The customers can be charged depending on the displacement they travel from the 
starting point.
Sounds fair! Any other suggestions that you would like to give to the client?
Yes. First, depending on demand, the distribution of business and economy seats can be varied going 
forward, choosing a mix which maximises revenue. Second, if and when more such machines are 
developed, a combination of routes can be explored, such that no customer has to travel through 
multiple destinations. Lastly, the client can potentially look into developing a leasing model for this 
machine if the rents so earned generate more revenue than the ticketing model.
Sounds good. We can close the discussion here.
Thank You!
Yes, it is a fair assumption. Please go ahead with this.
To calculate willingness to pay, I would like to estimate the amount of money saved by a person
of either class by using this machine to travel using their average income and estimated worth of
savings by using the machine.
Yes, go ahead.
For a business class customer for this service, which would typically be a person who owns a 
private jet, the average income range can be taken to be $10 Mn p.a. Similarly, for an economy 
class customer, average income would be around $500K p.a. Do these sound like sensible figures 
to base my calculations on?
Walk me through the logic behind suggesting these numbers.
So I have assumed that the average cost of operating a private jet for a year is around $1 Mn, and 
thereby average income level has been taken to be a large multiple of the figure. For the economy 
class, a lot of the frequent business class travelers have their travel sponsored by their company, 
So the average pay of managers at such levels is taken to be around $500K p.a.
Sounds fair! Please go ahead.
Assuming that a trip across continents is an average of 12 hours, I will estimate the potential 
time-saved using this machine. Since a trip from the 1st point to the last one takes about 1 hour 
and not all passengers will make the entire trip.
2024-2025 Page 112

===== PAGE 113 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client has found a new transportation machine that can travel to any place in just 5 minutes. The machine is housed in Mumbai. They need 
your help in deciding how to price this machine?
Interviewee Notes
• Cost-based pricing is 
not relevant since this is 
a one-time product that 
the client has found
• Business Class: owners 
of private jets;  
Economy class: business 
class travelers of the 
regular flights
Case Facts
• Only 1 machine with 11 
stops, so 1 hour for a 
complete trip and 1 hour to 
cool down with 24 hours 
operations
• 20 Seats: 5 Business class, 15 
Economy class
Recommendations
• Understand the machine’s overall proposition and operations before proceeding with calculations
• Try to converge the figures found via the two pricing approaches to reach a final price range for the two customer types
• If the demand is high for the business class, then eventually the economy seats can be replace with a few business class seats
Pricing of 
Machine
Competition 
Based pricing
Value Based 
Pricing
Supply 
Demand ratio
Reference 
Price
Superspeed travel
Key learnings
• Understanding the operations of the machine and value created for customers
• Analyzing willingness to pay and current costs of transportation
Willingness 
to Pay
(Worth of time saved calculated using 
Annual Earnings)
• Business Class: $10Mn p.a. 
aggregated for 11.5 hours = $13K
• Economy Class: $500K p.a. 
aggregated for 11.5 hours = $700
(Calculated using current spendings)
• Business Class: $1Mn cost of jet p.a., 
aggregated for 1 trip = $10K
• Economy Class: Average cost of 
business class ticket = $2K
Cost Based 
Pricing
Pricing | Transportation | Moderate 
Click here for: 
Panorama Report 1
Panorama Report 2
2024-2025 Page 113

===== PAGE 114 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is an Indian telecom operator. They are planning to launch a new 5G plan in the
market and require your help in pricing the plan.
Sure. Firstly, to better understand the client situation – what is their current scale of operations?
Do they have a pan-India presence?
Yes. They are a pan-India player and one of the largest operators in India.
For their current range of services, can I assume they have an existing 4G-base present?
That’s a fair assumption. They do have existing 4G plans running.
Data plans typically have a talk time component added as well. Additionally, there are also plans
with only data pack Are we looking at just the data plan or a combination plan?
Let’s take a combined – data + talk time plan.
Okay. The 5G rollout has different stages to it. There are infrastructure investments required,
permissions, allocations and other regulatory requirements also needed. What stage of the
journey are we currently at?
We have already started rolling out 5G services across the country adding the necessary
infrastructure. We currently have presence in 500+ cities. Though we do not have a dedicated 5G
plan for our users.
How does the current market look like? Are there other players who have launched 5G services
already or will we be the first ones?
We have one major competitor. If you understand the Indian telecom market, it has largely been a
duopoly over the last few years. Both of us have a nearly equitable market split in the 4G
userbase.
And does our competitor have existing/running 5G plans?
Not really. Both of us are at the expansion stages for the service. Like us, they have ramped up
their 5G network presence in 450+ cities and expected to launch dedicated 5G plans soon.
Understood. We can take three broad approaches for pricing the new plan:
1. Value-based pricing basis our current offering
2. Competitor-based pricing basis the existing customer offerings
3. Cost-based pricing
Because we do not have existing competitors in the market, we cannot do a comparative analysis.
I would prefer value-based pricing over cost-based pricing from a consumer behavior perspective.
Sounds fair. How would you go about pricing the plan now?
I would basically start with a baseline data + talk time plan and evaluate the incremental value add
switching to a 5G service would offer. This would give us the perceived value of the plan.
Go ahead.
As far as my understanding of the telecom services is concerned the factors relevant to a
consumer are:
1. Serviceability: a) Device compatibility and ease of upgrade, b) Geographical coverage
2. Performance: a) Network Speed, b) Network stability, c) Transfer speed or latency, d)
System lag and buffer-free media streaming
3. Limits: a) Data limits, b) Post-limit drop in speed and quality
4. Value added services: a) IoT or other additions and multi-device ecosystem, b) Future
potential of adding services
Is there anything else that I should factor in?
5G Plan Pricing – Interview Transcript
Pricing | Telecom | Moderate
You have broadly covered the ideas. How do we proceed from here?
Firstly, let us assume that a baseline 4G plan in India costs about Rs. 400 per month. This includes
unlimited talk time and 1.5GB data per day.
Now, I will consider a region that has all the necessary requirements and is being serviced. For the
performance, do we know how fast are 5G services against the current 4G implementation?
5G spectrum is a whole range and is expected to be 10 – 100x faster than 4G when fully
implemented. For the limited offering right now, let us say it gives 2.5x (seems to be low) the
speed.
Great. I would combine stability of the network in all forms be it buffer-free media, calls, or
general avoidance of lag in the system. Do we know how the stability of 5G networks would differ
against existing 4G networks?
Let’s say we add a 5% premium for stability.
Lower latency or transfer speed is a relevant factor for people looking at the network for gaming.
Can we quantitatively assess the performance difference between 4G and 5G on this?
Theoretically, 5G is supposed to reduce latency 10x. But, in more practical implementations let’s
say it reduces it to 50%.
The limits on data are more strategic decisions and will be difficult to quantify it. So, basis the
other numbers I would price the new service at,
Rs. 400 * 2.5 * 1.05 * (100%/50%) = Rs. 2100 for a similar plan.
Do you think it is a fair price? Would people be willing to switch to this more than 5x jump you
are quoting?
Yes, the price is high and might have resistance in adoption. But we can focus on the long-term
benefits of switching to 5G. In order to offer reduced prices, we can also try and cut down on
the margins we currently have.
A large set of our users might not actually be utilizing the daily 1.5GB limit. We can look at the
average consumption and reduce our margins basis the actual costs incurred to create demand for
the new 5G services.
Fair point. Now, if you were to do a cost-based estimation of the prices, how would you go about
doing it?
For cost-based pricing I would consider, a) Infrastructure costs, b) Spectrum bid costs, c)
Operational expenses
Add a profit margin to get the expected revenue.
I am aware of the current user base we have, and can use the same to estimate the demand for
the service basis the likelihood for conversion. Next will try to estimate break-even price
assuming a 2.5-to-3-year recovery window.
Okay. Let’s say we did that analysis and that tells us that we should price our offering at Rs.
4000/month initially. Would you go ahead with that price?
I will not go ahead with that price because the reception of the service at that price point will be
very low. Our demand estimation will be inaccurate for such high price points. As I said before,
we will need to revise our estimations in this case.
We will have to increase the market demand for the service itself before launching formal plans.
Offering collaborated services in the initial years and large discounts would help.
Good. Thanks for the analysis.
2024-2025 Page 114

===== PAGE 115 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is an Indian telecom operator.  They are planning to launch a new 5G plan in the market and require your help in pricing the plan.
Interviewee Notes
• Pan India player and one 
of the largest operators 
in India
• Existing 4G plans
• Data + Talk-time plans
• One major competitor; 
at expansion stage
• Do not really have many 
existing competitors, 
hence comparative 
analysis not 
possible/helpful
Case Facts
• Baseline 4G plan in India 
costs INR ~400 / month, 
inclusive of unlimited talk 
time and 1.5GB data / day
Additional facts:
• 5G spectrum expected to be 
10-100x faster than 4G 
when implemented; 
currently at 2.5x speed
• Premium for stability – 5%
• 5G to reduce latency 10x, 
practically to 50%
Recommendations
• It is important to analyze all the possible pricing strategies. In this case, we do not have a set of competitors, hence valu e and cost-based pricing have been prioritized over 
competition-based
• Understand the current offerings for 4G plans (basis talk time and data offered)
• Understand the computation of perceived value of new 5G plans and assess how the different factors are accounted for within t he same
Pricing of a 
5G Plan
Competition 
Based pricing
Value Based 
Pricing
5G Plan Pricing
Key learnings
• Understanding the important aspects/factors within the telecom industry and the different value-adds/services (e.g., speed, stability, latency, etc.) 
• Analyzing the current landscape of 5G spectrum in India and willingness of consumers to switch to 5G plans
Serviceability
Cost Based 
Pricing
Pricing | Telecom | Moderate 
Infrastructure Costs
Spectrum Costs
Operational Expense
+
+
Performance
Limits
Value Added Services
Base Price
x
x
x
x
Profit Margin
+
Click here for 
Panorama Report!
2024-2025 Page 115

===== PAGE 116 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Experiments have shown that cows that have been fed on our product show an increase in milk 
production by 6 liters over 10 days and also have a shinier coat.
Great! That is something that we can work on, however I would like to clarify a few things first, will the 
experiments conducted show the same results in the field? What I mean by this is that there could be a 
difference in the breed of cows used for the experiments and the cow that finally consumes the cow 
feed in the market. Should I consider any such anomalies? Also, is there a quantum of time after which 
the cows show these results?
Good point! You can assume that cows in India will only be able to give 4 litres of extra milk for the 
same cow feed, as per the time before the results are seen, you can assume instantaneous results.
Can I know the milk price per liter ?
Sure, it is Rs 50.
So, From my calculations, we are able to provide a customer with Rs 600 of extra value compared to 
the competitor’s bag, so we can price our bag between Rs 950 – Rs 1550, we can charge a price lower 
than Rs 1550 and still make a profit!
That is great! So, we can close the case here, all the best!
It was a pleasure interacting with you!
Yes, you are correct in your assumptions, we will be manufacturing in India, but last-mile
connectivity is still a cost guzzler, the final cost for a bag of cow feed is Rs 1000.
Great, that gives us a lower limit on the price, do we have any expectations on margins?
Yes, about 10 percent
So that gives us a price of Rs 1100 , Now to check if this price is viable or not, I would like to do 
competitor benchmarking, do we have any data on the competitors in this market? If not, then do 
we have any prior market research data on the customer’s willingness to pay?
While there are small players in the market, there is one major player that sells the cow feed at 
Rs 950 a bag.
Oh! So, we seem to be in a bind! If we can’t provide any extra value, we can’t justify our price. 
We should look at the value-based approach next, but before that I have a few questions about 
the product of the competitor and our product.
Yes, go ahead.
The first question is regarding the dimensions of the bag, does our bag have the same quantity as 
the competitors? If yes, can I please know how many cows can the bag feed at once or a single 
cow can be fed for how many days?
The competitor’s cow feed bag and our bag have the same dimensions, a single bag can feed a 
cow for 30 days.
Since we have already covered that significant R&D has been spent, Does our cow feed benefit 
the cow or the cow owner in any way, let us say for instance the cow feed would lead to an 
increase in the milk production of the cow?
Cow Feed – Interview Transcript
Pricing | Animal Husbandry | Moderate | BCG Summer placements interview round  
Your client has developed a new variation of cow feed they want to know how to price it 
optimally for the Uttar Pradesh Market, How will you go about it ?
Can I get some details on the client? Their country of origin? Whether this is their first product, 
or do they have other products?
The client is from Sweden & this will be their first product in the Indian, specifically in UP
Since we have to price this cow feed, there could be three standard pricing approaches and we 
also have to consider a fourth option, how this cow feed will play into the barter system that is 
primarily present in these villages.
Can you elaborate on the barter system?
Villages are generally tight knit communities where the people would generally exchange goods 
for goods or favors, for example a farmer could give crop waste for a cow and get some milk in 
return, would you like me to start my analysis with such a system?
Excellent point! However, for this situation we would not consider such interactions. What else 
do you think could be done to price this product?
I can think of three approaches to price the cow feed, a cost-based approach that would allow us 
to cover the basic costs, a competitor-based approach which would give us a benchmark and 
finally a value-based approach which would be based on any USP that our product can provide.
Please go ahead with all three, starting with the cost-based approach.
Since this project would have involved significant R&D, do we have any costs that we need to
recover, & what is the timeframe within which we would like to cover this cost?
While this would be an apt assumption, for now focus only on the variable cost for this product.
I’d like to focus on the value chain of the cow feed then, I will assume it involves the same steps
to deliver a bag of cow feed as any packaged product. Do we know if we are going to be
manufacturing in India? The one major cost that I can foresee is related to the last-mile
connectivity issues.
2024-2025 Page 116

===== PAGE 117 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client wants you to price a new variation of cow feed for the Uttar Pradesh market
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Standard pricing approach 
would work here,
however the UP market is 
different and involves an 
informal barter system.
• Fixed costs for RnD are 
not considered for the 
case, only variable costs 
considered.
• Experimental results may 
vary from the actual 
results, as seen in this case 
when the milk productivity 
increase is not the same 
for the cows in India.
Case Facts
• Production of the cow 
feed bag is similar to
any standard packaged 
product.
• Major competitor 
prices the bag at Rs 
950. 
• The Price of Milk Rs 50 
per litre.
• Cow feed causes the 
cow to produce more 
milk and the skin of the 
cow to become 
“shinier”.
• Extra milk produced by 
the cow is 6 litres in 10 
days (experiment) and 
4 litres in 10 days 
(actual)
Cow Feed
Key Learnings
• The case mentioned that the cow becomes “Shinier”, can also consider the value of an animal when it is dead, however the ques tion may not be valid in a state like 
Uttar Pradesh ( still should have been asked).
• The dimensions of the bag could have been asked a bit earlier. Should be ready for a guesstimate if the R&D costs are to be r ecovered.
• Although the time horizon for the product is small, it is still safe to ask if the time value of money is to be considered or not.
Pricing | Animal Husbandry | Moderate | BCG Summer placements interview round  
Pricing of Cow Feed
Cost Based 
pricing
R&D Costs
Value Based 
pricing
Competition 
based pricing
Variable Costs
Value Chain
Existing Price 
of Competitor
Extra Benefit
(Milk Output)
Rs. 950
4 litres x 10 
days x 3
= Rs. 600
Procurement
Processing
Packaging
Storage & 
Transport
Last mile
Customer 
Support
2024-2025 Page 117

===== PAGE 118 =====



===== PAGE 119 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Key Learnings
• The major revenue streams for a sports team is usually – Cut of media rights, Cut of central sponsorship, Team sponsorship, Merchandise, Ticket Sales
• Media rights is often the major source of revenue for the league and each of the teams
Calculating expected increase in variable revenue streams (prize money & media rights) that are dependent on ending rank
Case Facts
• No sentimental reason to 
buy Kohli, find his intrinsic 
value
• Team finished 5th last year 
and will finish above that 
with Kohli
Interviewee Notes
• Ignore any budget 
constraints
• Cost and competitor-
based pricing not 
relevant
• Value based pricing 
done by looking at 
potential increment in 
team revenues if Kohli is 
bought
Your client is an Indian Premier League team that wishes to bid for Virat Kohli in this year’s IPL auction. Advise them on how much they should bid.
Total Revenue (200 Cr)
Media Rights 
Share (80 Cr)
Merchandize 
Sales (20 Cr)
FixedVariable 
(16 Cr)
Brand deals 
(50 Cr)
40% 25% 10% 10%
Prize Money 
(30 Cr)
15%
20% 80%
Team Rank 1 2 3 4 5 6-10
Probability 5% 10% 25% 30% 30% 0%
Team rank 1 2 3 4 5 6 7-10
% of variable 
revenue 25% 20% 15% 15% 10% 5% 2.5%
(Return if Rank 1st)*(Probability of Being 1st) + (Return 
if Rank 2nd)*(Probability of Being 2nd) +….
Return if Rank 10th)*(Probability of Being 10th)
5%*25% + 
10%*20%.... + 
0%*2.5%
14.5%
Increase in 
Revenue (2.32 Cr)
Value per deal+14.5%
Increase in 
Revenue (4.35 Cr)
Number 
of Tickets 
sold
No. of deals
+14.5%
Seats in 
stadiumOccupancy
Increase in 
Revenue (5 Cr)
+10%
IPL Bidding – Interview Transcript
Number 
of 
games
Increase in Revenue 
(2 Cr)
+10%
Increase in 
Revenue (2 Cr)
+10%
Net Increase in 
Revenue (Rs 16.63 Cr)
Pricing | Sports | Challenging | McKinsey Buddy case
Tickets Sales
(20 Cr)
Ticket 
price per 
game
2024-2025 Page 119

===== PAGE 120 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
I agree with your assumption and the process map is good. To answer your question, the 
peculiar aspect here is that 95% averaged farm output comes from 4 eastern Chinese provinces 
from small and marginal farmers.
That is interesting! I would like to focus on these farmers then. Productivity and other factors are 
unlikely to be this cyclical. Thus, I would like to first focus on the macro aspects of number of 
farmers and area sowed per farmer. Do we have any data to suggest cyclicity in farmers sowing 
the crop each year?
Yes. All the other factors are fairly constant over the years, but the farmer count is cyclical. Can 
you think of a reason why? Take a moment.
I think it can be because of two factors, either the farmers 
(1) CANNOT grow every year or for some reason 
(2) DO NOT want to grow every year. The first could largely be because of cyclicity in inputs to 
grow the crop, like seeds or specialized fertilizers and the second would largely be dependent on 
price realized last year. Given the case facts that the farmers are small and marginal and that 
there is price cyclicity, I am inclined towards the latter. There are more farmers growing in year 
N, which leads to more supply with a constant demand and thus prices fall. Next year there are 
less farmers, thus less supply and higher prices, leading to a cyclical behavior.
You are right. This is what we diagnosed the problem to be as well. Can you tell me the 
assumptions you are making here?
Sure. There are 3 fundamental assumptions-
(1) The crop also has an annual growing cycle
(2) The farmers arrive at the market at a similar time and thus do not have bargaining power and   
there are no losses and no storage infrastructure at the farm level
(3) The introduction of the plant as a raw material must have happened 10 years ago replacing 
something else.
Great. This was well done. Best of luck for the subsequent rounds.
Thank you. It was a pleasure interacting with you.
Your client is WHO and they are concerned with the cyclicity in the prices of Malaria medicine and 
want your help to figure out why this is happening.
Before I begin solving for the root cause, I would like to understand the facts of the case better. 
(1) What exactly is the cyclicity pattern-annual or something else and for how long have we   
observed this? 
(2) How much is the variance? 
(3) Are we considering global changes or restricting to a geography?
Fair enough. (1) The cyclicity is annual with similar annual variations of highs and lows for about a 
decade (2) Let us assume that it only a few percentage points but enough. I want you to focus on 
the qualitative aspects here. (3) Global.
Thanks. So, from the annual cyclicity, we can make two assumptions-
(1) There is no structural industry level shift presently, though there might have been 10 years ago 
which we can explore later & 
(2) From a supply-demand perspective, it is unlikely that for a disease, the demand will have similar 
annual variations. So, I will assume that it is a supply side issue. Is it alright to go ahead with that?
You are quite right.
Oh alright. Can we assume that the supply cyclicity is the main reason and that it is opposite of the 
price cyclicity? In which case, I would like to understand the medicine a little more. Are we 
considering multiple variants? Also, what is the API (active pharmaceutical ingredient)?
Yes, and you can assume that there is only one standardized product with one API which is 
chemically derived from a plant source grown through individual farming.
Oh alright. So, my strategy here would be 2 step-
(1) Understand the model of flow of the product from farm to client to identify the location of 
supply bottleneck in a lean supply year. 
(2) Once that is identified, I would like to understand the factors contributing to that lean supply. 
To understand the first, am I correct in assuming the following process? (Exhibit 1)
The strategy seems good. You can assume that the problem is the total farm output cyclicity. All 
the other downstream steps are standardized.
Oh alright, thanks! Before I look at farm aspects, I want to highlight that lower outputs would 
increase cost at downstream steps also as fixed cost per unit will be higher when units are less. 
Ignoring that I would like to break down the total farm output as follows (Exhibit 2). I will 
consciously not be including external factors such as government policy and environmental factor 
changes as these are unlikely to have annual impacts. Before I proceed further, I would like to 
understand the spatial distribution of farmers and the type of farmers.
Drug Pricing – Interview transcript
Pricing | Pharma | Challenging 
2024-2025 Page 120

===== PAGE 121 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is WHO and they are concerned with the cyclicity in the prices of Malaria medicine and want your help to figure out why this is
happening.
Approach/ Framework
Recommendations
• Increase penetration with counter offers and schemes
• Give away indirect distributor inputs to increase retailing
Observations / Suggestions
• The interviewee looked at it from demand and supply side, which can further be broken down into internal and external issues
• If you are not aware about the pharma industry, it is okay to ask the interviewer to give you a brief explanation of the same– In this case, the interviewee was 
aware about API, which he/she made use of in the supply chain
Case Facts
• Malaria, WHO, cyclicity in 
prices.
• Facts-Annual phenomenon. 
10 years ago. 
• 95% from small marginal 
Chinese (east) farmers
Interviewee notes
• Be qualitative. Global 
impact.
• SUPPLY side issue.
• API is unique and one 
variant. Derived from 
PLANTS!
• Issue- farm level.
• Ignore Government and 
weather.
• Focus on macro issues
• No of farmers- cyclical
Farm (includes 
sourcing inputs)
Processing of 
raw material
Medicine 
manufacturing
Supply to 
wholesaler
Supply to 
retailer
Number of farmers
Field area under 
cultivation/farmer
% Field area under 
cultivation for this crop
No. of cropping 
cycles/year
Units of crops/unit field 
area (Cropping density)
Productivity factor
Exhibit 2- Process 
map of the annual 
output drivers 
(upstream to 
downstream). Every 
point is multiplied in 
the total; change in 
any of the 6 factors 
will lead to change in 
output.
Exhibit 1: Process map 
of the product 
production steps (Please 
note that transportation 
costs/processes 
discussion between any 
2 processes will be 
discussed along with 
these if needed)
Drug Pricing
Pricing | Pharma | Challenging 
Click here for: 
Panorama Report 1
Panorama Report 2
2024-2025 Page 121

===== PAGE 122 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Road Congestion Issue – City Corporation: Interview Transcript 
Pricing + Unconventional | Public Policy | Challenging
Great, what can be the congestion alleviating approaches on the demand side then?
Road congestion can be tackled by getting fewer people to travel itself, getting fewer people to travel
on road or by getting the people travelling on roads to use fewer vehicles.
Okay, how do you plan to implement these?
The first one can be achieved through promotion of work from home at firms or having staggered
working hours at firms, thus tackling peak hour traffic.
For having fewer people on road, adoption of non-road public transport needs to be improved. This
can be achieved by focusing on Awareness, Accessibility, Affordability and Experience of public
transport: Awareness through public campaigns; Accessibility by improving touch points; Affordability
through incentivization for public transport (lower rates) and dis-incentivization for private transport
(road taxes, fuel charges, vehicle prices, etc.); Experience by improving ambience and ease of use.
For getting people to use fewer vehicles, ridership per vehicle needs to be improved by encouraging
and enabling car-pooling through government mandates, public campaigns or promotion of start-up
firms working in the space. Government schemes like odd-even can also contribute to car-pooling.
That’s great. I think you’ve covered the broad aspects of the report. Do you know what congestion
pricing is?
For supply side under road infrastructure, the short-term steps would be improving road quality,
removing any obstacles, and planning for diversions and one-way traffic. The long terms steps would
be widening of roads, building new networks and the construction of overhead roads.
For improving the public transport, there should also be encouragement for non-motor transport
through the construction of cycling and walking tracks, capacity building (through new routes and
higher capacity), and overall quality improvement of road and non-road public infrastructure. Last-
mile connectivity can be improved with public transport and initiatives like public bicycle or e-cycle
stands.
Lastly, new age modes like air-taxis might be explored further in the future.
That makes sense. Let’s move to the recommendation stage then.
Great. So, anything else to do in the analysis stage?
So far we’ve looked at supply and demand at an aggregate level but we also need to apply the lens
of time because there might be mismatch during specific time periods leading to peak hour traffic.
At a broad level, I would look at the city population multiplied by vehicle ownership. The former
can grow due to indigenous population growth or migration into the city.
Let’s focus on the vehicle ownership for now.
Sure, here I would look at trends of vehicle ownership. Then I would look at multiple
categorizations of vehicles: two-wheeler and four wheelers, commercial and private, cargo and
consumer.
I will then look at average ridership per vehicle in private vehicles and utilization rates for
commercial vehicles. For a demand side analysis, it also makes sense to categorize kinds of travel
which primarily be work related, education related, health-related or recreation related. On
similar lines, we can identify geographical hotspots for all these travel categories within the city.
MCGM, the City Corporation of Mumbai has onboarded you as a consultant on a study. They
want you to create a report on road congestion in the city. the report should cover an analysis
plus recommendations, and it should take both a short term and long-term view. Let's hear from
you about how you would approach this.
That sounds interesting. So, we're working on this report on road congestion in the city of
Mumbai. When you say road congestion in the city, are their specific regions you want me to
focus on?
Let’s focus on Greater Mumbai and look at the entire congestion situation there.
Sure. Like you said, this report would be broadly structured in two parts. I would first look at an
analysis of the current situation including the various data points that should be looked at.
Thereafter, I'd move to the recommendation stage basis the analysis.
That sounds fair let's move into the first part then.
When I think of road congestion with first principles, I see it as a supply-demand problem. Supply
being the availability of infrastructure and demand being usage of it. Congestion is the cause of
greater than required time spent on travel: either due to slow movement or obstacles.
Focusing on supply side, I would look at the road infrastructure and the facilitation infrastructure.
Firstly, for road infrastructure, the parameters under consideration would be
a. Width, wherein I would have to look at effective road width which is often lower due to
encroachment or double parking.
b. Quality of roads and connections amongst roads
c. In terms of obstacles, there can be two types of them – unintended and administrative.
Unintended obstacles can include potholes, accident debris or broken roads, and
administrative obstacles include tolls and check points.
Alright. That’s good. But are you missing something? What other factors can affect the congestion
in the supply side?
Actually, while looking at road congestion, I would also have to look at public transport: road and
non-road. Former includes buses, autos and cab services. For buses, I would specifically like to
look at routes, capacity, quality and functioning parameters like timeliness. For non-road public
infrastructure, I would look at local trains and metros. This can further be categorized as
currently operational and planned projects. I would also need to analyse touch-points between
non-road and road transport modes because last mile connectivity is important.
Sounds good. Let’s move on to the demand side now. What factors would impact the existing
traffic flow?
I believe it’s a concept where toll or fine is charged on cars according to traffic conditions on a 
route.
That’s mostly correct. So MCGM currently has a proposal for implementing dynamic congestion
pricing across major road routes of Mumbai. The idea is to conduct a real time analysis of traffic
conditions on routes and charge a toll accordingly. More the traffic, higher the toll. The idea is to
achieve traffic equilibrium across the city.
MCGM wants you to come up with a brief implementation structure for this proposal.
Okay, this is an interesting proposal. Let me take some time and come up with a brief structure.
Sure.
So, implementation will have three major parts:
Firstly, real time analysis of traffic conditions, which can be done through a Google maps like
technology, along with cameras and drones. Second, for mass communication of traffic conditions
and route charges, there can a mobile application or website to inform citizens, along with large
digital boards on routes to inform everyone. Lastly, the actual transaction be undertaken on the app
as well as physical toll booths. The Fast tag technology can be deployed as well for this.
Alright, that’s good. So, what are a few risks that you perceive with this proposal, just off the top of
your head?
Roads and transportation are public goods, and the primary objective should be to ensure non
discriminatory access. This might be an issue due to digital divide. Further, this might lead to a
situation where economically stronger groups secure better access to transportation facilities. This
can be addressed by incorporating subsidy for certain social groups. Apart from this, the proposal
might also face acceptance issues amongst the wider public due to the complexities involved.
Good points. We can close this analysis here.
Sure. Solving for it can also take supply side and demand side approaches.
2024-2025 Page 122

===== PAGE 123 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Key Learnings
• In such cases, it is important to define the problem statement as tangibly as possible. Here, defining what is meant by road congestion and what effects of it are to be solved for.
• Thinking on absolute first principles allows creation of a broad structure in these unconventional cases.
• Recounting personal experiences helps in adding points to the analysis
MCGM, the City Corporation of Mumbai has onboarded you as a consultant on a study. They want you to create a report on road c ongestion in the city. The report 
should cover an analysis plus recommendations, and it should take both a short-term and long-term view. Let's hear from you about how you would approach this.
Interviewee Notes
• Road congestion is a 
combination of two 
things: slow movement 
and obstacles
• Cover public transport in 
all parts of the analysis
• More people in each 
vehicle whether private 
or public = fewer number 
of vehicles on road
Case Facts
• Prepare the report with 
two aspects: Analysis 
and Recommendations
• Focus on Greater 
Mumbai Region
• Give short-term and 
long-term 
recommendations
• Dynamic congestion 
pricing - concept
Road Congestion: 
Analysis
Demand Side Supply Side
Road 
Infrastructure
Public 
Transport 
Infrastructure
Width
(Effective)
Quality
Road Congestion Issue – City Corporation (Analysis)
Facilitation 
Infrastructure
Inter-road 
Connections
Traffic 
Lights
Traffic 
Personnel
Diversions
Road Non-Road
Buses
(Capacity, 
Quality, 
Timelines)
Cab 
Services
Autos
Local 
Trains
Metros
Obstacles
Unintended Administrative
Checkpoints
Tolls
Potholes
Accident Debris
Broken Roads
City 
Population
Vehicle 
Ownership %
X Vehicle 
categorizations
Travel categorizations 
and geographical 
mapping
Look at average ridership per vehicle in private 
vehicles and utilization rates for commercial vehicles. 
Apply lens of time to identify supply demand 
mismatch in specific hours (Peak hour)
Pricing + Unconventional | Public Policy | Challenging
Indigenous 
population
Migration
• Two-wheelers & 
Four-wheelers
• Commercial & 
Private
• Cargo & 
Consumer
• Work related
• Education 
related
• Health related
• Recreation 
related
Operational 
projects
Planned projects 
2024-2025 Page 123

===== PAGE 124 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Key Learnings
• In such cases, it is important to define the problem statement as tangibly as possible. Here, defining what is meant by road congestion and what effects of it are to be solved for.
• Thinking on absolute first principles allows creation of a broad structure in these unconventional cases.
• Recounting personal experiences helps in adding points to the analysis
MCGM, the City Corporation of Mumbai has onboarded you as a consultant on a study. They want you to create a report on road c ongestion in the city. The 
report should cover an analysis plus recommendations, and it should take both a short-term and long-term view. Let's hear from you about how you would approach this.
Interviewee Notes
• Road congestion is a 
combination of two 
things: slow movement 
and obstacles
• Cover public transport in 
all parts of the analysis
• More people in each 
vehicle whether private 
or public = fewer number 
of vehicles on road
Case Facts
• Prepare the report with 
two aspects: Analysis 
and Recommendation
• Focus on Greater 
Mumbai Region
• Give short-term and 
long-term 
recommendations
• Dynamic congestion 
pricing - concept
Road Congestion: 
Recommendations
Demand 
Side Steps
Supply Side 
Steps
Road 
Infrastructure
New Age 
Transport modes
Road Congestion Issue – City Corporation (Recommendations)
Public Transport
Fewer people 
travelling on road
Fewer people 
travelling
Using fewer 
vehicles
Pricing + Unconventional | Public Policy | Challenging
Promoting work 
from home
Staggered 
working hours
Increasing Public 
Transport 
adoption
Awareness: 
Public Campaigns
Affordability: 
o Public transport 
incentivization
o Road transport 
dis-
incentivization
Car pooling
• Govt. 
Mandates
• Start-ups
• Campaigns
Short term 
steps:
• Quality 
improvement
• Obstacle 
removal
• Diversions 
and one-way 
planning
Long term 
steps:
• Road 
widening
• Fly-over 
construction
• New road 
networks
New Routes
Improving last mile 
connectivity with 
public transport and 
other initiatives
Infrastructure 
Enhancement
Higher Capacity
Accessibility: Ease 
of use and touch 
points through last 
mile connectivity
Experience: 
Ambience 
improvement
2024-2025 Page 124

===== PAGE 125 =====

Growth 
Strategy cases


===== PAGE 126 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
How would you decide which of these options to pursue?
I would focus on 2 factors:
1) Product-market fit: How well our current product aligns with the needs & behaviours of the new
consumer group being explored.
2) Synergy with existing operations: How well the expansion leverages the client’s existing
strengths & network.
For instance, exploring something like omnichannel operations may allow the client to tap digital-first
consumers from the same demographic while leveraging its store network for distribution.
Sounds reasonable. Let's move on. How do you suggest the client expand to entirely new regions?
Entering new market would need to be done in two stages: market identification & then the actual
entry. First, we would need to select a suitable target market to enter. For this, we can consider 3
factors:
1) The attractiveness of the market basis its current size, growth rate, & existing competition
2) Ease of setting up manufacturing/distribution operations there
3) The financial viability of the entire venture
Once we have the market identified, we would need to decide our entry strategy – whether we want
to acquire an existing player, partner with someone, or outsource parts of our value chain to local
players. Finally, we would need to formulate a go-to-market approach for launching the product.
Ok. Suppose we have decided to pick China as our new market. What could the major concerns be?
Building on the same factors, I see 4 significant risks at a high-level:
1) Market size: the market might be too small for our price segment. Mid-income at US levels will
be quite expensive in a Chinese context.
2) Strong price competition: The overall Chinese market may be more price-sensitive and we will
be competing against entrenched low-cost competitors.
3) Barriers to entry: getting licenses might be difficult in the current geo-political context and we
will also need to find new local suppliers and partners there.
4) Financial viability: The lower price points in China may not support our US-aligned cost
structure. There would also be additional costs from operating in such a distant geography.
There would be additional concerns depending on the entry approach that the client chooses.
So, overall what would your recommendation to the client be?
Basis the information we analysed so far, I would recommend the client to grow by pursuing adjacent
demographics in the US through newer channels.
This offers them 3 major tailwinds:
1) It is a known market for the client and their business model & structure is already aligned to it.
2) They can leverage their established capabilities in terms of brand, supply chain & distribution.
3) They are more assured of product-market fit without having to alter their products.
On the other hand, completely new geographies would entail a new & significant learning curve,
limited benefit from existing resources, and a high risk of the venture failing commercially.
Alright. That makes sense. Let us wrap it up here. Thank you.
The client is in the apparel business in the US and wants to expand their top line. They need your
suggestions on how to achieve this growth.
I would like to confirm the objective before I proceed. The client is seeking suggestions to increase
revenues. Is there any other objective? And do we have a number for the increase envisioned?
Yes, 25% and that is the only objective.
Okay, I would like to understand the client a little more, specifically, three things: the product
categories they operate in, their price segment, and the competitive position of the industry -
fragmented or consolidated.
Alright. So, they are a mid-priced jeans manufacturer known for their quality at affordable prices.
They operate in a fragmented market with pressure from both low and high-end manufacturers
along with same segment competitors. But within this space, they are among the top 5 players.
That helps. Now, we can drive growth either organically or inorganically. Given this is a fragmented
market, organic growth may face some competition pressure. But should we pursue it, we can
either increase the number of customers or the revenue per customer. Alternatively, we can
identify potential M&A targets and due diligence them for inorganic growth.
Sounds good. Can you quickly run me through how you can increase revenue per customer for a
product like jeans?
Sure. So, we can either nudge the average order value up or increase the number of orders a given
customer places. For the former, we can increase prices, provided the price elasticity is less than 1,
or provide discounts and bulk offers to increase purchase volume in an order. To increase orders
per customer, we can look at loyalty programs for increasing repeat orders & their frequency. And
we can also explore cross-selling across products.
Alright. Let us look at the other idea of increasing the number of customers.
Assuming we are not looking to redesign the product or launch a new one, we can either try to
strengthen our share of the existing market or expand to new markets. To grow in the current
market, we can study our target segment and strengthen our positioning to acquire more
customers. On the other hand, we can look to capture new geographies or customer segments.
The third alternative would be to explore entirely new product lines.
The client would be keen to explore newer markets. How would you suggest them to go about
this? Assume that they are sticking to their current product line-up.
I will start with exploring newer customer segments within the US market, given our client already
has an established presence and strong capabilities here. I would like to know more about their
current target segment and distribution channels.
The client sells to mid-income adults, both male and female with a concentration in urban markets.
They are predominantly a brick-and-mortar player, selling through their standalone outlets and
multi-brand retailers.
Okay. In that case, they can capture additional target groups either by diversifying to newer sales
channels like ecommerce, marketing their product to adjacent consumer groups such as young
adults, or tapping the same age group in related geographies like semi-urban markets.
Apparel Manufacturer – Interview Transcript
Growth Strategy | Textile | Moderate
2024-2025 Page 126

===== PAGE 127 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
The client is in the apparel business in the US and wants to expand their top line. They need your suggestions on how to achieve the growth.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee 
Notes
• Expand by 25%
• Factor in 
elasticity
• Acquisition
• US-China trade 
war & 
geopolitics may 
add regulatory 
barriers
Case Facts
• Jeans manufacturer 
in US
• Mid-priced segment
• Target Group:  Male 
and female adults
• Quality is a 
differentiating 
characteristic
• Fragmented market 
but top 5 player
Apparel Manufacturer
Key learnings
• Above structure provides an exhaustive framework on how to approach the problem from a consumer side
• Clearly identify if the company wants to focus on gaining more from its existing consumer or acquire new customers
• Trying to bring in insights which are relevant and current in the market such as omnichannel channel strategy to score brownie points
Growth Strategy | Textile | Moderate
Feasibility
Increase Revenues
Organic Growth
Increase 
revenue/customer
Increase 
revenue/order
Raise prices 
(revenue/unit)
Bulk & other 
discounts 
(Increase 
#units/order)
Increase 
#orders
Cross-sell 
(Increase orders 
across range)
Loyalty Programs 
(Increase orders 
across time)
Increase 
# Customers
Existing 
product
Existing 
Market
Strengthen 
channels
Improve 
marketing
New 
Markets
New 
geographies
Market 
Attractiveness
Market 
size
Market 
growth
Competition
New customer 
segments
New 
products
Inorganic Growth 
(M&A)
Production/
Distribution 
Feasibility
Financial 
Viability
Operational 
Synergies
Product-Market 
Fit
2024-2025 Page 127

===== PAGE 128 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is an elevator manufacturer. Lately, a new competitor entered the market who has been 
eating into the client’s market share. The client needs your help to devise a competitive response.
Just to confirm the objective, the client wants strategies to stem the loss of market share they have 
been experiencing. What exactly has been the decline and when did the competitor enter? Does the 
client have a specific target market share in mind that they want to attain?
They had a market share of 70% at their peak 2 years ago but this has now declined to 50% since the 
competitor entered the market. They just want your help to understand how they can prevent a 
further decline in this and maybe re-attain their market position.
Before I structure our approach, I need to clarify a few more things. For how long has the client been in 
this business and in which geography?
The client has been a well-known name in this industry since the past 20 years. They manufacture in 
Europe and have traditionally served European and US customers.
Interesting. This means the client was able to become the dominant player in terms of the market share 
at the global level despite presence only in two continents. 
Who exactly are their customers? What does the client’s value chain look like?
They usually have long-term contracts with builders. Whenever a new building block comes up, the 
client is responsible for shipping and installing new elevators.
The longevity of the client and the long-term nature of the contracts would typically mean close 
relations with customers which would help in this B2B industry.
Can you tell me a bit more about the competitors – How many competitors are there and what are 
their market shares?
There are basically just these two players in the market. The competitor has been able to attain a 
market share of 25% since they entered 2 years ago. The remaining 5% of the market is made up of 
small, regional players with negligible market shares.
How does the client compare with its competitors? Have they been facing a similar problem?
It is just the client who has been facing this problem. In terms of the product, the competitor has 
brought in a far superior elevator which is both faster and is priced cheaper.
Interesting. Product differentiation by competitors leads me to hypothesize that the client did not
undertake any product innovation over the years and customers are thus shifting to their competitor’s
superior products.
That is a fair conclusion.
Given this, I would like to take the following approach to consider the strategies the client can adopt to
grow their revenues. They can look to expand their business either organically or they can adopt an
inorganic expansion strategy by partnering with other firms.
What exactly do you mean by an inorganic strategy?
As part of an inorganic strategy, the client can look to partner with other firms or acquire them with
the aim to integrate vertically along the value chain.
That makes sense. Let us focus on organic strategies for now.
To grow their revenues organically, we can consider total revenues as the product of the total number
of customers and the average revenue per customer. The client can look for growth opportunities in
either of these.
Alright. Let us consider them both one by one.
Talking about the total number of customers, it will be the product of the total number of potential 
customers of the client’s product and the percentage conversion among them.
Given the lack of value offered by the client in terms of product quality and price, this is the first thing 
they need to address to increase the percentage conversion. The client needs to look at the typical 
customer’s purchase journey, understand their needs, invest in R&D to improve their product and 
improve their cost structure to offer a better price to the customer.
Makes sense. Let us talk more about increasing the potential customer base.
To increase the total number of potential customers, the client can either continue to focus on 
geographies they are already present in or instead venture into new geographies. In particular, the 
client has traditionally done well in the European and US markets. Can they venture into new 
countries? Where exactly is the client’s competitor focusing on?
That is a good point. Yes, the client can consider moving into new geographies. In fact, their competitor 
has been focusing on Asian markets which have been experiencing a healthy growth.
Interesting. It seems the competitor has been able to tap into new markets which the client has missed 
out on. The client can do the same and target Asian customers. They can look at other potential 
markets in the world as well and be the first one to move there.
How else can the client grow their total customer base?
The client can either target new customer segments, develop new products or explore new distribution 
channels. 
In terms of new customer segments, the client can look to partner with builders of both commercial 
buildings and residential societies as well.
If the client is willing to invest, they can introduce new products. They can leverage synergies in their 
manufacturing process by innovating products that require similar manufacturing capabilities 
(materials/processes used). They can also leverage synergies in their distribution/sales network by 
making other products required by their existing customers - escalators, moving walkways etc.
They can look to expand their existing distribution and sales network as well. As a long-time brand in a 
B2B business, they can leverage their sales relationships to persuade customers from defecting to other 
manufacturers while they meanwhile understand and address their pain points.
Excellent. Let us talk about the average revenues per customer.
The average revenue per customer would be the product of the average volume purchased per 
customer and the price charged to them. I assume the total number of elevators a customer buys 
would be dependent on the contract length, building specifications, the real estate industry etc. 
In terms of pricing, the client can look at a price discrimination strategy to extract maximum value from 
different customer segments. If the client has other products that they offer, they can look at bundling 
and cross-selling as viable profit maximization strategies as well.
Good. Is there anything else?
As a trusted name, the client can even look to leverage their brand by forging long-term customer 
relationships based on trust. Further, even though they are surpassed in terms of speed of elevators, 
the client can possibly identify other customer needs such as safety or luxury and re-brand themselves. 
Accordingly, they can sell elevators to hospitals or luxury hotels and charge a premium price as well.
Finally, their competitor’s ability to innovate and excel quickly in this market points to superior 
organizational capabilities. The client can perhaps look to poach the top management of the competitor 
to attain fresh talent.
That will be all. We can close the case here.
Elevator Manufacturer – Interview Transcript
Growth Strategy | Manufacturing | Moderate | Bain
2024-2025 Page 128

===== PAGE 129 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is an elevator manufacturer. Lately, a new competitor entered the market who has been eating into the client’s market share.
The client needs your help to devise a competitive response.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• It is important to note 
that the industry is a B2B 
one, and their declining 
market share is despite 
the client being the 
incumbent.
• The focus of the case is on 
an ability to outline as 
many creative competitive 
strategies as possible.
• It is important to move 
quickly through the 
structure and suggest as 
many strategies as possible 
without being bogged 
down in the details of one 
specific strategy.
Case Facts
• Client is a well-known 
name and has been a 
dominant player in the 
elevator market for the 
past couple of decades.
• Market share decline is 
due to superior value 
offered by the 
competitor in terms of 
product quality and 
price.
Growth in Revenues
Inorganic 
Revenues
Organic 
Revenues
Number of 
Customers
Avg. Revenue 
per Customer
No. of Potential 
Customers % Conversion Volume per 
customer
Price per 
unit
New 
Geographies
Existing 
Geographies
Elevator Manufacturer
Recommendations
• Partner or acquire other companies to achieve forward and backward integration.
• Negotiate contracts to ensure optimum revenue per customer.
• Invest in R&D, perform operational redesign, consider organizational restructuring, and leverage brand and sales network to dissuade customers from defecting.
• Venture into new geographies, new customer segments or new distribution channels to tap into new customer markets.
Key learnings
• Although the case asks for a competitive response, the objective is to achieve a growth in revenues and thus the growth frame work is apt for being exhaustive here.
• It is important not to be flustered by a lack of knowledge of the elevator industry. It is more important to proceed in a str uctured manner and use creativity to come up with responses to increasing 
competition. Other than the ones mentioned here, there is scope for more creative options as well.
New 
Products
New 
Customer 
Segments
New 
Distribution 
Channels
Growth Strategy | Manufacturing | Moderate | Bain
2024-2025 Page 129

===== PAGE 130 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is an e-grocery player who sells online. The business has been seeing a muted
growth over the last year and would like you to diagnose why that is the case.
Interesting! I would like to start by understanding the client better and also building
additional context on the problem. What is the nature of the business the client is in? Are
we talking about a quick commerce type business? And what is the metric for growth?
Yes. The client has two different services, quick commerce and slotted delivery system.
The former is an on-demand system while the latter is for planned deliveries in which
customers have to book a time slot. The client is looking at the increase of sales for
tracking their growth.
Got it. And have both the services been seeing stagnant growth or is one better or worse
off than the other?
No. Quick commerce is seeing healthy growth while the sales in slotted deliveries has
been decreasing.
Which geographies does the client operate in? And is the stagnancy in slotted delivery
growth localized to certain areas?
The client operates out of tier 1 cities, and the issue is a pan-India problem.
How long has it been since the service has been offered and how has the service been
performing historically?
It’s been eight years since the client started doing slotted deliveries. And they have been
doing well until last year, where the growth has slowed down to about 3%.
Do we have any information on the industry for slotted deliveries has been faring? Have
other players been facing this issue?
There are many players in the industry. Some of them have been facing similar issues.
Also, who are the client’s target customers? Do we have information on the demographics
of the customers?
Good question. The customers are all urban households over-indexed for the 30-40 years
age group.
Okay. I think I have enough context on the problem and would like to develop a
preliminary analysis, and dive deeper subsequently.
Sounds good.
We can track the client’s sales as coming from two distinct sources: slotted deliveries and
quick commerce. Since the latter has been growing healthily, we can zone into the slotted
deliveries for potential causes of the issue.
E-Grocery Player – Interview Transcript
Growth Strategy | Retail E-Commerce | Moderate | Bain
We can further break down sales from slotted deliveries as a function of the number of
customers, the average basket value which can further be split into average product value
and average basket size, and the yearly frequency of purchase. Would we have any
information on how each of the components have been doing in terms of growth?
That’s a good breakdown. We’ve witnessed a drop in the number of
customers, the average basket value has remained constant while the yearly purchase
frequency has also witnessed a decline.
Alright. In which case, I would like to drill-down on the number of customers and
the purchase frequency. Would there be anything I should prioritise for the analysis?
Yes. We can look at the decline in the total number of customers.
The total number of customers can be split into the market size and the market share our
client has. Do we know if there have been any changes in these over the last year?
Yes. The market size has declined while the market share for the client has remained the
same.
I would like to look at the decrease in market share as a consequence of external and/or
internal factors.
As part of external factors, there are three potential contributors which I can think of:
economic and policy factors, technological factors, and social factors including consumer
habits. Since there was the mention that some players are facing a similar decline, I am
assuming the decline in market size can be primarily attributed to externalities. Is this a fair
assumption?
That’s true. Can you think of possible reasons from the technological and social buckets
which might have driven the decline?
Sure. In terms of technological aspects, I would like to break it down into three potential
factors: software and front-end product innovations (UX/UI) in quick commerce,
advancements in operations (IoT in dark stores/warehouses for example) which might
increase efficiency in quick commerce, and adoption of allied technologies which favor on-
demand services.
For social factors, I would like to break it down into two potential reasons: changing
socio-cultural landscapes (nuclear families and working couples who prefer to order
groceries on-demand) and conscientious substitutions (drive to buy and support local
kirana stores for example).
There have been improvements in front-end development for quick commerce, and the
whole experience has moved towards a gamified one which has been seeing a lot of users
switching away from slotted deliveries. And yes, there has been a shift in work and cultural
attributes, which has seen users preferring to order groceries on-demand as opposed to
having to wait for it for certain times. This was a great analysis! We can close the case
here.
2024-2025 Page 130

===== PAGE 131 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is an e-grocery player who sells online. The business has been seeing a muted growth over the last year and would like you to 
diagnose why that is the case.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Diagnosis of the issue lies 
in using multiple case facts, 
which emerge in a 
cascading form. Hence, it 
was important to ask a 
series of connected and 
pointed questions. 
• Important to disambiguate 
the status quo of growth 
into the two sales streams.
• Decline in customer base 
and frequency of purchase 
are interlinked and 
attributable to external 
factors.
Case Facts
• The client is an e-
grocer who has two 
services: quick 
commerce and slotted 
deliveries. The metric 
of growth is sales.
• Client caters to all tier-
1 cities and the growth 
is muted throughout 
their India operations.
• Uptick in quick 
commerce and a 
decline in slotted 
deliveries has been 
observed. 
• Target customers are 
urban households in the 
30-40 age bracket. 
E-Grocery Player
Recommendations
• Change in socio-cultural landscapes, including an increase in working couples has seen families take to quick commerce, who have cited hassles with slotted deliveries.
• There have been more product innovations in the quick commerce space, including gamification of the whole experience which ha s seen users interact with these 
services better. 
• Overall, there has also been an industry wide decline in the frequency of purchase using the slotted delivery method. 
Key Learnings
• This is an unconventional growth case, where the interviewer put more emphasis on the “why” as opposed to the “how” (to remed y the situation post-facto).
• A good example of a case where force fitting a framework would have proven deleterious and reminds us of the value of thinkin g on the spot and coming up with an 
original approach.
Growth Strategy | Retail E-Commerce | Moderate | Bain
Sales
Slotted Deliveries Quick Commerce
No. of 
Customers
Average 
Product Value
Average Basket 
Size
Frequency of 
Purchase
Market Size Market Share 
(%)
Internal Factors External 
Factors
Economic & Policy
Technological
Social
Product Innovations 
(UI/UX)
Operational 
Innovations
Usage Bias
Change in Socio-
Cultural Landscape
Conscientious 
Substitutions
Click here for: 
Panorama Report 1
Panorama Report 2
2024-2025 Page 131

===== PAGE 132 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
2 & 3-Wheeler Manufacturer – Interview Transcript
Growth Strategy | Manufacturing | Automobile | Moderate | McKinsey Partner Case
Can you suggest some measures to increase the market size?
Sure, to start with, I would first find the target market for E-Rickshaw and then we will see the
market size based on the customer affordability, accessibility. Am I good to proceed?
Yes, please proceed.
So, the target market would be the substitute of normal Rickshaw in places with easy availability 
of charging stations. Then, the customer affordability needs to be considered. Do we know the 
price point of the E-Rickshaw and that of normal Rickshaw?
Sure, do we have data of the market share of E-Rickshaw?
Yes, the market share of our client is 70%.
That’s interesting! So, our client holds a major market share. But the market is stagnant. So, to
find a sustainable growth strategy, we need to look at increasing the market size.
Your client is a 2 & 3 wheeler manufacturer selling the product PAN India. They are witnessing a 
growth of 4-5% while the industry is growing at 9-10%. How can they increase the growth more 
than the industry?
I would like to understand the objective of our client. What do they mean by growth? Are they 
referring to the top line or the bottom line of the company? What is the timeline of the 
objective?
Growth refers to sales in INR, and the objective is to grow the sales within 1 year at market 
level growth.
Okay, so we need to look at company sales. Since when has the company been witnessing slow 
growth of 4-5%?
It is a recent phenomenon.
Yes, good question. The major product offerings are bikes, scooters, e-rickshaw and client is 
involved in manufacturing & distribution through dealers. You can assume the process like Hero 
Honda.
You mentioned that the client is selling PAN India. So, is the growth figure of 4-5% consistent 
across all the regions or are there any specific regions that are suffering from slow growth?
The growth is same across all the regions.
Oh, so the issue is not region specific. Now, I would like to understand the growth of each 
product segment of our client vs the industry.
Product wise growth figures are Scooters: 10% vs 20%, E-Rickshaw: 2% vs 2%, Bikes: 7% vs 7%
Great. Now I would like to know more about the products offered and its value chain analysis.
That’s interesting. The scooter segment is growing slower than the industry while others are at 
par with the industry. Just to rule others out, what is the revenue split of the 3 segments?
Yes, so the scooter contributes 25%, E-Rickshaw 70% and Bikes 5%
Okay, so we have 2 problems at hand:
1. The slow growth of scooters with respect to the industry (market).
2. Slow industry growth of E-Rickshaw which contributes our maximum revenue share.
I would like to deep dive in both the problems. Do you want me to focus on any problem first?
Let’s first focus on E-Rickshaw, please.
Let’s assume that the charging stations are located in metro cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore & 
Kolkata. The price of E-Rickshaw is half that of ICE- based Rickshaw.
Okay. As the charging stations are located in few cities, the market is stagnant. But the price of E-
Rickshaw is quite attractive to increase the presence in other cities as well. In order to increase
the market size, our client can tie-up with state government to invest in setting up of charging
stations in Tier-II & Tier-III cities. This will lead to increase in market size. Now, to capture a
bigger market share, our client can add some additional feature in the product such as fast
charging and better-quality product with more powerful motors.
Good. Those are some good suggestions
Now let’s go into the scooter segment. Can you give me suggestions to grow the scooter 
segment?
Sure, before diving into ways of expansion, can you confirm is there any shift in the product type 
which led to the industry growing faster than our client? 
Our client don’t want to partner with any other manufacturers. Can you provide ways to expand 
by themselves?
To expand organically, we can look into the total number of customers and average revenue per
customer. To increase the total number of customers, we would start with estimating the market
size. I would like to estimate the market size through customer segmentation which can be done
through data available in online aggregators.
First, we will identify users who visit the website to search for 2-wheelers, then, we will further
segment the customers who were searching for scooters, then, we will further segment the users
who searched for the scooters with similar specs as our product. This will give us our target
customer segment. Once we get the target segment, we can group them further based on age,
gender, regions, etc. using data mining tools.
Good. Now assume the target market size is of INR100 million. How would you increase the 
revenue in the next one year so that it is higher than the industry growth rate? 
Given that the competitors are innovating to attract customers, the client must enhance the R&D
spend. Next, to increase the customer reach towards the brand and build the brand awareness,
this could be done through aggressive marketing and building the brand presence through digital
interactions with experts on Aggregators website, client’s website, Influencers, cars & bikes
shows, store visits, magazines & print media.
Okay. So we can wrap up the case here. What is your final recommendation?
In order to achieve the growth as per the industry growth rate, our client has 2 options:
1. First, increase the market size of E-rickshaw as it contributes to the major revenue stream for
them. This can be done by entering new geographies by eliminating the shortcoming of charging
stations which can be achieved by tie-up with government. Also, launch of new product with new
additional features can be considered.
2. Second, organic growth through increase in R&D spend and consumer awareness would be the
recommended step.
Our competitors have improved the design of the scooter.
Interesting, so this might be one of the reason for customers to shift towards competitor's 
product. For growth of the scooter segment, our client can either expand organically by 
themselves or adapt an inorganic strategy by partnering with other manufacturers,
2024-2025 Page 132

===== PAGE 133 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Recommendations
• E-rickshaw : increase the market size of E-rickshaw as it contributes to the major revenue stream for our client. This can be done by entering new geographies by eliminating the
shortcoming of charging stations which can be achieved by tie-up with government and partnership with other players. Also launch of new product with new additional features can be
considered.
• Scooters : Organic growth through R&D spend & increase in consumer awareness would be the recommended step.
Key Learnings
• It is important to get a clarity on the objective and the timeline for growth strategy
• It is important to compare the % contribution of revenue product wise to get a clear idea about the issue.
• Conformity from client at each step helps understand if moving in the right direction
Your client is a 2 & 3-wheeler manufacturer selling the product PAN India. They are witnessing a growth of 4-5% while the industry is growing at 9-10%. How
can they increase the growth more than the industry
Interviewee Notes
• It is important to understand 
the timeline of the growth 
strategy.
• Enquire about different 
product mix, revenue 
streams, geographies, value 
chain.
• Enquire about revenue split 
which could get the major 
areas to focus
• Product wise growth 
comparison of the client and 
the industry
Case Facts
• Growth is slow across 
all the regions. So it is 
not a region specific
issue.
• Focus on E-Rickshaw 
and scooters. 
• E-Rickshaw’s growth is 
slow but contributes 
70% of client’s revenue
• Market share of E-
Rickshaw is 70%.
• No cost side issue.
• External factors 
contributing to low 
market size of E-
Rickshaw
• Brand presence is 
essential for scooters 
because the industry is 
growing rapidly but the 
growth of client’s 
product is low
Revenues
Bikes E-Rickshaw
Number 
of clients frequency
Market 
size
Market 
share
2 & 3-Wheeler Manufacturer
Price / unit
Total
market % targeted
New 
geographies
Set up 
charging 
stations
Tie-up with 
govt.
Partnership 
with other 
players
Scooters
Organic Inorganic 
Revenue / 
customer
Brand 
awareness
Expert 
Interaction 
Aggressive 
marketing
Number of 
customers
Market 
size
Market 
share
R&D 
spend
Click here for 
Panorama Report!
Growth Strategy | Manufacturing | Automobile | Moderate | McKinsey Partner Case
2024-2025 Page 133

===== PAGE 134 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is Flipkart. They have requested your advice on medium-term strategy, for the next 3-
5 years.
Are there any specific objectives that I need to keep in mind?
We have a dual objective of growth and improving profitability.
Understood. Do we have any information on the competitive scenario?
You can assume that we have only one competitor – Amazon India. We have a 55% market share
in terms of Gross Merchandise Value.
Okay. I would like to break down the problem into the following four parts:
1. Increasing customer acquisition
2. Increasing customer retention
3. Increasing number of transactions/basket size
4. Increasing per transaction profitability and overall profitability
The first three will take care of our growth objective and will have some bearing on the
profitability objective as well. Does this approach work for you?
Yes, this works.
In that case, I’ll start with figuring out ways to increase our customer base. Do we have any
information on our existing customer base?
80% of our customers are in urban areas, and account for 95% of our sales. Within urban areas,
60% of our customers are from metro areas.
Interesting. Our customer base is highly concentrated. Any particular reason why we have not
expanded much in rural areas?
The Company has been trying but has been unsuccessful. Can you figure out the reasons?
Some possible reasons that I can think of:
1. Access: Do people in rural areas have access to internet? And do they know about Flipkart?
2. Serviceability: Can Flipkart service all those locations, in terms of logistical capabilities?
3. Trust/Inclination: Are rural consumers comfortable transacting online? Or are they comfortable
only with the physical kirana stores?
Good. So, the issues we have been facing are lack of trust and very high last mile delivery costs.
Any suggestions around the same?
For trust issues, can we appoint a person in every reasonably-sized village who will help in placing
and delivering the orders and more importantly, will be the face of the organization. For reducing
last-mile delivery costs, can we partner with some logistics companies specializing in that area? Or
maybe India Post? They have the widest reach.
In fact, we can onboard Kirana stores and adopt an omnichannel strategy. These kirana stores can
be equipped with a mobile/tablet and can take orders on behalf of the customers. They can earn a
commission on each sale. Plus, they can serve as a mini-warehouse for us, helping in last-mile
delivery as well. Customers can come there and pick up their goods rather than us delivering
them to their doorstep.
Interesting ideas. Let’s move on the next aspect.
Sure, now we need to figure out a way to retain customers. Before we do that, do we have any
information on whether we are comparable to our competitor in terms of product selection,
delivery and overall experience?
For the purpose of this exercise, you can assume that we are similar to them in almost all aspects.
We are currently competing primarily on pricing.
Okay, but that would not align well with our profitability objective. Can we create a customer
retention program on the lines of Amazon Prime?
Flipkart had tried launching loyalty programs like ‘Flipkart First’ and ‘Flipkart Plus’ which provided
faster delivery and greater discounts to its members. But it failed to take off. Can you think of why it
failed when compared to ‘Amazon Prime’ ?
‘Amazon Prime’ apart from providing benefits on shopping - like free shipping, one-day delivery and
greater discounts – also provides free access to its OTT service and Prime Music. I think these
additional features make Amazon Prime membership much more lucrative.
To compete with Amazon Prime, Flipkart will also have to bundle their loyalty program with other
features. We could explore tying up with other service providers such as Apple to provide access to
Apple Music, Apple TV, Apple News etc. But this would incur additional costs.
Interesting suggestions. Let's move on to profitability now. How will you reduce costs?
What are our biggest cost heads? I would assume marketing  (including discounts) and logistics?
Yes. They form around 70% of our total operating costs.
Okay. The measures we discussed should hopefully reduce our reliance on discounts. So that should
bring down the marketing costs over time. We can also look at better targeting of ads, I am sure we
are already doing that. But as we gather more data, maybe our targeting will improve bringing down
our marketing costs.
For logistics, we will actually have to spend more in improving our warehouse and transportation
network as we expand, which will result in benefits over time. Our suggestion on kirana stores can
hopefully improve our logistics efficiency and bring down costs.
Anything else you wish to add?
Walmart has recently acquired Flipkart. Walmart is known for its supply chain efficiency, maybe we
can draw some lessons from them and figure out collaboration areas
Good. Lastly, Flipkart is also struggling to expand the growth of its B2B marketplace– ‘Flipkart
wholesale’ which targets MSMEs and small-scale Kiranas. What could be the possible reasons
1. Competition from established players like Amazon, Udaan etc.
2. Kirana stores and MSMEs have long-lasting informal relationships with their local wholesalers. It
is difficult to gain trust
3. Working capital is a major problem for Kirana stores and MSMES. Maybe, our credit terms are
not favourable. Also, cash is the favoured mode of transaction for these vendors, and they may
not be comfortable transacting online.
4. There is also the additional upcoming risk of the ONDC (Open Network Digital Commerce)
initiative by the government. If successful, this will add to the competition
E-commerce – Interview Transcript
Growth Strategy | E-Commerce | Challenging 
2024-2025 Page 134

===== PAGE 135 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is Flipkart. They have requested your advice on medium-term growth strategy, for the next 3-5 years.
Approach / FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• There are two objectives: 
growth and profitability 
(which can be conflicting, 
especially in platform 
businesses in growth 
stage)
• The value chain of the e-
commerce business (or 
any digital business) would 
involve customer 
acquisition, customer 
retention, increasing 
basket size and increasing 
transaction profitability 
Case Facts
• 55% market share
• Amazon is the only 
competitor
• 80% of our customers 
are in urban areas, and 
account for 95% of our 
sales. Within urban areas, 
60% of our customers 
are from metro areas.
Customer acquisition Customer 
retention
Increasing 
transaction 
basket size
Increasing 
profitability
Focus on rural areas
Co-opt Kirana 
stores
Loyalty program
Aggregator model
One-stop shop
Logistics cost
Marketing cost
E-commerce
Key learnings
• This is more of a ‘conversational’ type of case rather than one which is following a particular structure. (generally observe d in final rounds)
• In case the company involved is a well-known one, be sure to use your knowledge of the company during the interview. For example, here, the interviewee mentioned about Walmart 
(ideally, should have mentioned much earlier as could have provided an interesting direction to the case). Also, be aware of the recent development like ONDC – bringing these insights 
helps to differentiate yourself.
• In case you have work/ internship experience, do think about the common issues faced by that industry – the interviewer might give you a case on that particular industry
Growth Strategy | E-Commerce | Challenging 
Click here for 
Panorama Report!
2024-2025 Page 135

===== PAGE 136 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Is there anything else we should consider?
To get our fertilizers into more hands, expanding our dealer network could be effective.
One option could be to enter new markets; countries like Sri Lanka and Bangladesh could
be potential options. Do we know whether our customers are large dealers?
90% of our sales come from large dealers, while the remaining 10% come from small
dealers.
So, large dealers are key players for us. If we wanted to strengthen our relationship with
them, we could offer incentives. Besides offering better incentives, another strategy could
be to bypass the dealers altogether and sell directly to the farmers.
That’s an interesting idea. How would you suggest we go about it?
There are a couple of approaches we could take. First, we could partner with government
agricultural bodies that are already in contact with farmers. We could run educational
workshops through these bodies to show farmers how our fertilizer can help increase
their crop yields. Does the company have any experience working with government
programs?
Not much, but it’s something we could explore.
Another approach would be to collaborate with private agricultural groups. These groups
often have strong leaders who influence the farmers' decisions. We could offer them
special programs or incentives, like discounts on bulk purchases or exclusive access to
new product lines, to encourage them to promote our fertilizers. If we pursue this
strategy, we should also think about how to measure its success.
That sounds like a solid approach.
Your client is a Fertiliser manufacturer supplying all commonly used fertilisers to the
farmers across the country. They want to increase their revenue. Give them
recommendations for the same.
Thank you for the problem statement. Does the client have a quantitative revenue figure
in mind?
Yes, they want to grow at 10-12% while the industry is growing at 4-5%.
Can I know more about the fertiliser? Is there anything unique about the fertiliser? Is it
applicable for all crops or only certain crops?
The fertiliser is a standard NPK fertiliser that can be applied on all crops.
Where does the firm geographically operate?
The firm operates in most parts of the country, barring Northeastern states where it is
not as feasible for us to transport the product.
Thanks for that information. Just to make sure I'm on the right track, should I focus only
on strategies to increase revenue, or do I need to consider cost management as well?
You should only focus on increasing revenue for now.
Okay, we can look at increasing the revenue organically and inorganically.
You can leave out inorganic growth and instead, focus on organic growth.
To grow organically, we can either increase prices or sell more products. Since fertilizers
are usually similar across brands, raising prices might not be a good idea. So, we should
focus on selling more. Is this a fair assumption?
Yes, your assumption is correct.
If we look at the existing markets, do we know how well our products are currently
penetrating these markets? Are there areas where we could improve our distribution or
marketing efforts?
We haven’t fully explored that, but it’s worth considering.
We should also think about our marketing strategy. We could segment our customer
base by region, crop type, or even the size of the farm, allowing us to target specific
groups more effectively. For example, we could position our fertilizer as the go-to choice
for high-yield crops in regions where farmers are focused on maximizing productivity.
Fertilizer Manufacturer – Interview Transcript
Growth Strategy | Agriculture | Moderate-to-Challenging | Strategy& 
2024-2025 Page 136

===== PAGE 137 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a fertilizer manufacturer supplying all commonly used fertilizers to the farmers across the country. They want to increase their 
revenue.  What course of action should they take to achieve this objective? 
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• A basic understanding of 
NPK Fertilizers was 
expected.
• Marketing and distribution 
strategies were the focus 
of the case. 
• Unconventional approach 
was preferred.
Case Facts
• Client is a pan-India 
fertilizer company that 
wants to grow at 10-
12% while the industry 
is growing at 4-5%.
• It is a standardized 
product, with little 
room for product 
differentiation.
Growth in Revenue
Inorganic 
Growth
Organic 
Growth
Volume 
Growth
New Customers Volume per 
Customer 
New 
Geographies
Fertilizer Manufacturer
Recommendations
• Partner with the government and agricultural bodies to increase customer education on fertilizers. 
• Collaborate with private agricultural groups to offer incentives for fertilizer use. 
• Measure the success of the new strategies. 
Key Learnings
• Some domain knowledge was necessary to approach this case. 
• Customer acquisition is costly, so appropriate targeting is important. 
Price IncreaseM&A JV
Marketing 
Channels
Distribution 
Channels
Dealerships Government
Agri Bodies
Private Agri 
Unions
Existing 
Geographies
Growth Strategy | Agriculture | Moderate-to-Challenging | Strategy& 
2024-2025 Page 137

===== PAGE 138 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Sure, do we have any growth target and timeframe in mind?
Newspaper Company – Interview Transcript
Growth Strategy | Media | Moderate | Bain Buddy Case 
Once the customer has purchased the newspaper, there are three levers that would affect the 
journey: First is the veracity. The client would need to ensure that its proposition of delivering 
unbiased news is maintained and the content of the articles and the news is factually as well as 
logically correct. Second thing is the variety. The client should ensure that as a general 
newspaper, there are variety of news available from all the spaces in a holistic manner. It can also 
try to ensure that the editorials and guest editorials to be from different sectors and engaging 
renowned personalities for it. The client can also ensure fun games like puzzle, sudoku to be 
provided in the newspaper. The final would be the quality of content. Having legible content with 
high quality images and graphics goes a long way in sustaining loyal customer base. As an example, 
the Dainik Jagran in my area had an issue with printing of the images and as a result, it lost a 
substantial amount of subscription.
Yes, this makes sense. Let’s move to the final part.
Sure. Now, I would like to move into the journey after client has read the newspaper. This can 
involve providing extra benefits to engage them for a longer time. For example, providing comic 
strips, anecdotes, stories in a sequence-wise manner to inculcate curiosity for the next day’s 
newspaper. The client can also provide coupons in the newspaper which had to be collected in a 
specific number, let’s say 60 days, and these could be redeemed at vendor in terms of gifts, 
discounts and rewards. This can ensure the stickiness of the customers to our newspaper. Finally, 
there can be a feedback portal as well, where customers can send their take on the news, or 
raise some specific issue, participate in a poll using sms, app.
That sounds interesting. Do you want to cover anything else.
Sure. For a person to purchase of the newspaper there would be three factors that client can
look to improve, first would be the awareness about the newspaper, thus proper advertising and
promotions using hoardings, digital media need to be done. Second is the accessibility. Client
would need to ensure that all the major vendors, book stalls, railway stations have the newspaper
readily available, The client can provide lucrative benefits for the vendors to incentivise them for
preferring its newspaper more. And, the third would be the affordability. The client can look to
provide discounts on long term subscription and keep competitive pricing for the retail sales of
newspaper.
Good. Let us move to the next part.
Till now we have covered, increasing the reach of the newspaper as per the ask of the client. 
However, we can look into the advertising revenue stream, which is a lucrative and one of the 
fundamental options to grow the revenues in this sector. Strategies  like implementing region-
based targeted advertising, ensuring high quality graphics in advertisements, promoting influencers 
and celebrities on paid basis using articles etc. Do you want me to deep dive into it?
That’s great insight but let’s stop here. Thank You.
Yes, let’s focus on increasing the number of customers now.
Sure, I would like to breakdown the total number of customers as Market Size multiplied by
Market Share. Considering the Market size ie., the total consumer base first, we can look on
increasing it by either of the two ways: Moving into new geographies where we can focus on
providing services in North-eastern region as well, as the accessibility has considerably improved.
Okay. Carry on.
Another way, the client can look to explore is through developing new products. If the client is 
willing to invest, it can launch other variety of newspapers and magazine for different genre like 
Business, General Knowledge, Weekly Round-ups etc. which require similar capabilities. Also, if 
the client has resources, it can move into digital segment by launching news through their own
Sure. The average revenue per customer has two levers: The revenue per transaction and No. of
transactions per user. As we only have a single newspaper, the revenue per transaction would be
the monthly subscription charge or the price paid for a single newspaper purchase. However,
increasing the price with same services might not be a feasible option as the customers might shift
to our competitors. However, we can add extra articles, op-eds, special news on weekends and
then our marginal increase in price can be justified.
Yes, correct. Let’s move on.
The client has also add options at additional price along with the newspaper like Weekly Market
recap 2-pager on Saturdays, Bollywood stories on Sunday, Special Trivia for competition
preparation, government job vacancy listings articles etc to bundle and cross-sell along with the
newspaper.
Your client is a national newspaper company. They were facing a decline due to covid restrictions 
in the pandemic. However, after pandemic the revenues are growing at a natural slow rate. Client 
needs your help in growing the revenues.
Okay, I want to understand more about the client. Where all does it operate and what types of 
newspapers does it print and what type of customers does it cater to?
The client prints a standard newspaper in English language not leaning to any political party. It 
operates across India except for North-East. The customer segment is across all age-groups.
Okay, do we have information about the competitors in the market and whether they are also 
growing at a natural rate?
We have 3 major competitors in the market and all of them are growing at a much faster rate.
Yes. We are looking to grow revenues by 1.25 times in 1 year
Fine. I am assuming that the client just prints the newspapers and sends it across to its agencies. I 
also wanted to understand the different revenue streams for the client. Currently, I can think of 
Ads, Retail sales, Subscription, events. Is there anything that I am missing here.
This seems okay
Sure, further I want to understand the bifurcation among these streams. Do we have data on it. 
Also, I want to know whether the client has any digital presence.
No, we don’t have any data on bifurcation. Also, the client is not into digital segment yet. Also, 
the client is willing to increase the revenue through content delivery only
Okay, I think I have enough information on the issue. I would like to consider two approaches the 
client can adopt to grow the revenues: Organic i.e., expanding through their own business or 
inorganic i.e., by expanding using JVs, mergers, and acquisitions. Do you want me to consider any 
strategy specifically?
Let’s focus on organic strategies only.
Sure, we can consider total revenues as the product of total number of customers and the 
average revenue per customer. Should I focus on either of the two?
Sure, let’s focus both of them one by one.
site, app, video news, and news aggregator platforms. However, as the timeline is just 1 year it 
won’t be feasible to develop operations from scratch and thus JV and acquisitions can be thought 
of as a way to enter digitally.
Good that’s a fair point. Let’s move on to increasing market share.
Sure, to increase the market share I would like to step into the shoes of a typical customer 
analyse the journey. Does it sound a fair approach to you.
Yes.
So, I would like to divide the customer journey into three parts. The first part of the journey will 
start with the decision to subscribe or buy the newspaper. The second part of the journey would 
involve the experience during reading the newspaper and the third part would be concerned with 
post reading the newspaper.
Sure, please go ahead.
2024-2025 Page 138

===== PAGE 139 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Recommendations
• Venture into new geographies, new product development and new customer segments.
• Promote bundling by releasing special weekly edition content
• Improving the aspects of customer journey of a normal newspaper reader from awareness to feedback
Key Learnings
• The case deals with the application of growth framework and exhaustively covers all the scenarios.
• Even if you don’t have knowledge of the industry, try to be creative and relate with newspapers you have been reading to come up with some ideas. This will be appreciated by the 
interviewer
Your client is a national newspaper company. The client wants to grow its revenue.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• It is important to understand 
the business of the client, 
Thus, concise questions 
about about product mix, 
geography, competitors, 
different streams of revenue 
are needed.
• It is important to understand 
the resource constraints in 
hand for the client. Thus, 
bide in the interviewer while 
proposing new initiatives.
• Here the interviewer asks 
the interviewee to focus only 
on revenue increase using 
content delivery i.e., reaching 
to maximum number of 
customers.
• The focus of the case is to 
come up with multiple 
creative strategies as quickly 
as possible.
Case Facts
• The client prints a single 
standard English 
newspaper.
• Revenues have not 
grown as per the 
industrial standard.
• The client operates in 
pan-India except North-
east
• The value chain of the 
client is similar to
conventional newspaper 
companies.
Growth in Revenues
Inorganic Organic
Number of 
customers Revenue/customer
Market 
Size
Market 
Share
Newspaper Company
Growth Strategy | Media | Moderate | Bain Buddy Case 
Existing 
geographies
New 
Geographies
New 
Product
New 
Customer 
Segments
Market 
Size
No. of 
transactions per 
customer
Revenue per 
transaction
Pre During Post
Awareness
Accessibility
Veracity
Quality
Feedback
Rewards
Variety
Affordability
2024-2025 Page 139

===== PAGE 140 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Yes, by value. Assume the municipal corporation buys water from the client at Rs. 10 / kL.
(Interviewee calculates similar to the table on the next page). I would segment all the households of
Bangalore based on a rough estimation of income. My assumption would be that higher-income people
would live in bigger houses and have higher water demand.
Assuming only 50% population would have municipal water supply, my daily water demand comes out
to be 2.5 million kL / day. This translates into a revenue of Rs. 25 million / day.
This market size seems attractive even if we can control a 60-70% share once the other sources dry
up.
Sounds reasonable. Once the water dries up, what alternative sources can be possible ?
We can look at rainwater harvesting, sourcing water from locations near Bangalore, harvesting
groundwater from nearby forests and supplying to Bangalore or we can look at sourcing
seawater from a coastal town, purifying it and supplying to Bangalore
Great. Our client is looking to source sea water from Chennai, transporting it to Bangalore by setting
up a new distribution network, purifying it in plants near Bangalore and selling to the municipal
corporation. Can you list down the costs which will be incurred by us?
I can divide the costs as Fixed and Variable costs. Fixed costs would involve the infrastructure costs i.e
setting up of pipelines, purification plants, licensing costs and insurance costs. The variable costs will
be the cost of buying seawater, salaries and operations costs, maintenance costs, wastage and theft
costs.
What costs would you include under the operation cost and what would they depend upon ?
The operations cost would include the utilities costs like costs of running the pumps and power
houses to source water and supply it to Bangalore. Another cost would be the cost of running
purification plants and cost of running powerhouses to supply water to municipal corporation.
The operation costs would depend upon:
1. The distance over which water is supplied (We should look at minimizing this distance from
Chennai to Bangalore by setting up underground pipelines)
2. The gradient of the on-surface pipelines (Given that Bangalore is surrounded by many mountains,
and we cannot have underground pipelines throughout)
3. Specification of Pumps such as their quality and efficiency.
I think the analysis is sufficiently thorough. We can stop here. Thank you.
Your client is an Indian oil and gas company looking to increase their revenues. Suggest a growth
strategy for them.
I would like to start with a few preliminary questions. What business exactly is our client into and in
what geographies? Is there a growth target in their mind?
The client operates in the midstream sector i.e. transmission and marketing of oil & gas. They
operate pan-India and are looking to grow by 4x over the next 10 years.
Ok, so I would split the options to increase sales into exploring existing business or exploring new
business. Within existing business, I will look at options to increase volume or price and within new
business, I will consider M&A, entering a new geographical market or introducing a new product.
Great. Let's focus on new businesses.
We can analyze the new businesses using a 2x2 matrix of products versus business. With
the existing product, the customer can look to penetrate more in the existing business or expand
into a new business. With a new product, the customer can remain in the existing business by
modifying the product or enter a new business. The new business can be related (integration) or
unrelated to the current business. Do we have any data around what the client is looking for?
Yes, so as you correctly identified client wants to enter a completely new business of drinking
water distribution. They want to setup water purification plants to supply water to municipal
corporations.
Interesting. So, if I understand correctly, the client will source water from the water bodies, purify it
in its own plants and sell it to municipal corporations. Are we looking only at drinking water supply?
That’s right. How would you identify a good geographical location to start this business ?
I would analyze different locations and choose the ones where there is no distribution network
currently, which have water scarcity and a large population. I would also look at the purchasing
power of the municipal corporations, regulations, and possible synergies with my current
distribution network.
Hmm, what else? Since you would be selling water to municipal corporations, does it make sense to
set up a plant in a place with no municipal corporation supply? Also, in the places where municipal
corporation exists, they already have a water sourcing and purification network. Why don’t you
think from the perspective of demand in the future?
Okay understood. From the future perspective, I would benefit by setting up the plants and
sourcing network in a location where water sources are expected to dry up. Hence, I can use my
current pipeline network to source water from far away places and purify in my own plants.
Perfect. Our team carried out a similar analysis and they have identified Bangalore as one such
location. Can you help us size the Bangalore domestic potable water market?
Should I look at sizing by value? Also, I will look at only the household daily potable water demand.
Midstream Oil & Gas Company – Interview Transcript
Growth Strategy | Oil & Gas | Challenging
2024-2025 Page 140

===== PAGE 141 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Expand in India only
• Differentiating factor: 
client has a wide 
distribution network
• Can expand by expanding 
existing business or 
exploring new business
• For water business, focus 
on areas with scarcity of 
water supply.
• Benefit by setting up the 
plants and sourcing 
network in a location 
where water sources are 
expected to dry.
• Focus only on the potable 
waster supplied to 
households of Bangalore.
• Cost of pumping water 
will be a major cost
Case Facts
• O&G co. operating in midstream 
sector i.e. transmission and 
marketing and has pipeline 
network throughout India.
• They are targeting a revenue 
growth of 4x over next 10 years 
(Another hint that client will 
look for new businesses)
• Current operations are pan-India
• Client wants to enter a 
completely new business of 
drinking water distribution. They 
want to setup water purification 
plants to supply water to 
municipal corps
• Water sold to municipal 
corporation at Rs. 10 / kL.
• Client want to source sea water 
from Chennai and supply it to 
Bangalore using its network
Starting Assumption: 
Bangalore Population:
12 million
(3million households)
Income Low Income Medium 
Income High Income
% households 60% 30% 10%
Municipal water supply 20% 50% 100%
Water consumption (kL) 1 2 4
Total  water demand (Kl) 2,500,000
/day
Explore new 
business
Increase 
Volume Increase Prices Enter New 
Market
Introduce New 
Product M&A
Modification Penetration
Diversification Expansion
Businesses
ExistingNew
Products
New Existing
Revenue = 2,500,000 x Rs. 10 = Rs. 25,000,000/ day
Midstream Oil & Gas Company
Your client is an Indian oil and gas company looking to increase their revenues. Suggest a growth strategy for them.
Recommendations
• Expand by entering the new business of setting up water purification plants and selling water to municipal body
• The market size of Bangalore for potable drinking water looks attractive and given the expectation of future scarcity, 
it looks like a good place to set up the operations
• Major costs would be incurred in establishing the network of pipes and operations (purification and supply)
Key learning
• The case was quite lengthy and involved growth strategy, market sizing as well as some qualitative analysis
• The MECE growth framework at the start helped to quickly identify client’s growth srtategy
Growth Strategy | Oil & Gas | Challenging
Explore existing 
business
Grow Sales
Click here for 
Panorama Report!
2024-2025 Page 141

===== PAGE 142 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
You are moving in the right direction. Is there any other information you require from my side?
Yes. For the demand side, I would like to understand the international demand scenario. Are
there countries where we are already exporting our yarn? How are we operating there?
Internationally, the client operates through agents. The company has never served other 
countries on its own and does not feel it has the required expertise for the same. In terms of 
demand, most of our shipments go to the east – Japan and Indonesia.
It seems like the company has been operating through agents solely because it has not built the 
required capabilities for venturing outside India. Before I move to formulate a strategy, it would 
help to know why Japan and Indonesia are high-demand countries. Is it a trend or has this been 
constant over time?
These countries have a growing demand for merino wool yarn in recent years. You may call it a 
trend.
Why are the domestic producers not catering to the demand? They should have been amongst 
the first ones to foray into the market.
Wool yarn manufacturing is a capital-intensive industry. The demand in these countries is growing 
but is not large enough to be catered by domestic players at a profitable rate. I think we can 
proceed with formulation of a strategy.
The client wants to grow 5x in 5 years. Since it has already captured 60% of the market in India, it 
would need to venture internationally to grow at the target rate. There are two parts to my 
strategy – Capturing Growing Domestic Market and International Expansion. Is there a specific 
segment you would like me to focus on?
The two-part strategy seems fine. Focus on International Expansion part.
The client currently operates through agents in the international market. I believe it is fair to 
assume that these agents charge a mediating fee or commission. We can remove the middle-man 
to improve the margins. Now, for growth, we can look at an organic or inorganic strategy.
Do you think organic growth makes sense here?
Since the client does not have enough financial resources, it would make more sense to go 
through channels which require lesser investment. As organic growth requires considerable 
investment, it is not recommended. Within inorganic growth channels, Strategic Alliances and 
Joint Ventures should be preferred considering the financial resource constraint.
Good. I believe we can wrap up the case here. What is your final recommendation?
There are two parts to the final recommendation:
1. First, I would recommend tapping the countries in an order of priority. Countries where the 
domestic players have not developed yet, such as Japan and Indonesia, are good prospects for 
Strategic Alliances or Joint Ventures. Other markets can be considered at a later stage.
2. Second, the client should not lose sight of its domestic market. For the capacity constraint, it 
can smooth out production throughout the year or lease capacity from other players for catering 
to both domestic and international customers.
Very good. We can end the case here. Thank you.
Your client is a Wool Yarn Manufacturer. It wants to grow its revenues 5x in 5 years and has 
approached your firm. How would you go about it?
Before I venture to formulate a strategy for growth, I would like to know more about the client’s 
business model and the competitive landscape where it operates.
The client currently operates only in India and is the market leader with a 10% market share. The 
market is fragmented. It sources wool and converts it into yarn, which is sold further sold to its 
customers. The demand and production of wool yarn are seasonal in nature. If any wool is left, 
the same can be sold in the international market.
I want to learn more about the business in small steps. Firstly, I would like to understand the 
competitive scenario. It seems like the market is highly fragmented if the client is the leader with 
10% share. Do we know the reason behind the market being fragmented? Also, what is the share 
of the next-in-line competitor?
That is a fair observation. The Indian market is highly fragmented due to the limited capacity of 
wool manufacturers. Sales are made to big businesses – so client relationships are very important. 
Our client has long-standing relationships with its customers and can reap the benefits of 
economies of scale. Therefore, all the other players in the market have shares of around 1% each.
Secondly, I want to learn about the client’s operations, starting from the supply side and leading 
to the demand side. Who are the suppliers of wool? How is it that we can further sell wool 
without being a wool manufacturer?
Good question. There are two types of wool in the market – Merino Wool and Normal Wool. 
Merino Wool is of high-quality wool and comes from Africa. You can assume that our client only 
works with merino wool. The prices are decided in the international market and the firm is a 
price taker. Rise and fall in wool prices are passed on to customers. As the wool is internationally 
traded, excess wool can be sold in the international market at any time.
I want to continue with the questions on the supply side. Since there is an international market, it 
is fair to assume that the supply of merino wool is not a constraint. Also, as the client only deals 
with merino wool, is the 10% market share only in the merino wool yarn market or the entire 
wool yarn market in India?
That is an excellent question. The client commands 60% of the market in the merino wool yarn 
segment and does not wish to enter the normal wool yarn segment.
Since the client wants 5x growth in 5 years, we would need to command 300% of the current
merino wool yarn market. Do we have information regarding the growth of the market in India?
Yes. The market is growing at a 10% rate.
This would imply that the client would need to venture outside India to be able to meet its
growth target of 5x. Before moving on the demand side, I would like to understand the client’s
processing capacity. Does the client have any excess capacity?
Your observation about moving international is correct. To answer your question, the client is
operating at 100% capacity. It cannot increase capacity through part-time labour. The financial
resource constraints are such that they cannot heavily invest in purchasing additional plants.
This information limits the options the firm has available. There could be two ways to go about it.
Since wool yarn production is seasonal in nature, the firm can try to smooth out the production
schedule so that it may produce year-round. This would entail some minor investments in
storage. Additionally, the firm can try and lease the spare capacity from the smaller players in the
market. This is under the assumption that some domestic players have excess capacity.
Wool Yarn Manufacturer – Interview Transcript
Growth Strategy | Manufacturing | Challenging | Kearney
2024-2025 Page 142

===== PAGE 143 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a Wool Yarn Manufacturer. It wants to grow its revenues 5x in 5 years. Formulate a growth strategy for the client.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Open-ended case:
Requires higher number of 
preliminary questions. It is 
better to lay down a 
structure from the 
beginning.
• Understanding of business 
model, both domestically 
and internationally, is 
important. The operations 
might be drastically 
different.
• Size and growth of market 
segments needs to be 
benchmarked with client 
targets.
Case Facts
• Client is market leader 
in a fragmented market 
due to its specialised
wool yarn segment and 
customer relationships.
• Domestic market is not 
big enough to fit in with 
client’s growth targets.
• Financial resources and 
capacity are important 
constraints.
Growth Strategy
Revenue 
Growth
Cost 
Reduction
1.Revenue Streams
2. Market Share and Growth
Domestic International
Number 
of Units
Price per 
Unit Organic Inorganic
Recommendations
• Inorganic Growth: Strategic Alliances and Joint Ventures in undeveloped markets with growing demand. Financial constraints re stricted other modes of expansion.
• Focus on Domestic Market: Catering to growing domestic demand by smoothening the production schedule and leasing excess capac ity from smaller players.
Key Learnings
• Immediate Clarifications: There was a lot of data in the case. It was helpful to clarify doubts as and when they arose. 
• Explicit Assumptions: If any assumption is made, the same was mentioned explicitly.  The interviewer could point out if it do es not stand.
• Data-based Observations: Presence of mind always helps. Observations from quick number -crunching can create a good impression in front of the interviewer.
• Clarification on Terms: Clarification on exact terms is essential. E.g. terms like “Market Share” can be used for overall market or for specific segments.
Wool Yarn Manufacturer – Interview Transcript
Mergers Joint 
VenturesAcquisitions Strategic 
Alliances
Growth Strategy | Manufacturing | Challenging | Kearney
2024-2025 Page 143

===== PAGE 144 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
So, I think I have enough understanding of the business to analyze growth opportunities. I would like 
to break up my analysis into existing business and new business. Within existing business, I would 
analyze opportunities incurrent market and in new market. Within new business I would analyze if 
opportunities exist for vertical and horizontal integration. As mentioned earlier, I would look for 
unrelated diversification opportunities at the end after analyzing each of the business segments.
Sounds Good.
Ok, so starting with analyzing current market for existing business. As the specifications are provided 
by customer, there might not be much to differentiate through product. So, the client could aim at 
two things to gain more customers–cost reduction and differentiation through service.
On cost reduction, since cost of raw materials like iron/steel is not under client control, client can aim 
for increasing efficiency of manufacturing process through means like updating to latest technologies.
On differentiation through service, I have two suggestions. First, they can provide better after sales 
service. Second, they can have separate relationship manager for each of the customers to build long 
term relationship. In every few years, metro projects expand, so this can help in getting new contracts.
The client already has the latest technology. Good suggestions on differentiating through service. The 
private player is currently known for better service which has helped it in gaining more customers.
Thanks. Now we can look into new market for more opportunities. Before moving further, I would 
like to confirm if the client operates only in India?
Yes, the client is currently supplying only to the customers in India.
So, the client can look for upcoming metro train projects in South/South-East Asian countries, 
including Nepal, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Sri Lanka etc. Here the company may cater to customers 
without incurring a large transportation cost & may not even face competition from local players.
Good point.
So, until now we have looked into growth opportunities within existing business. Now, I would look 
into growth opportunities through new business. First, there are opportunities for vertical integration. 
If we consider backward integration, the client can get into steel/iron sheets-making business. Its other 
business segments also require the same material so this would also help in reducing costs.
Okay. But can you highlight few criteria which client could analyze before entering this segment?
Sure. Competition in steel industry, initial investment, demand to achieve economies of scales, etc.
Okay. Looks good. Go ahead.
On forward integration, I think there is not much opportunity from client side as requirements are set 
by customer. Moving to horizontal integration, we can check other needs of rail operator like engine, 
rail line etc. Here, synergies from mining and construction equipment manufacturing can be exploited.
Makes Sense. Do you have any more suggestions?
No. Perhaps we can move to second part of analysis.
We will wrap up the case here as we are short on time. But I am sure that you can replicate this 
process for other business segments as well. Thank you.
Your client is an Indian PSU that is into multiple businesses. They need your help in devising a 
growth strategy for next 10 years.
I would like to understand the objective first. In that regard, do they have any metric in mind?
The client wants to increase its revenue by 4 times in 10 years.
Okay. What is their current revenue? And how has the revenue trended over last few years?
Their current revenue is around 3000 crore rupees. It has remained stagnated over last few years. 
Thus, they are especially focused on devising a growth strategy.
Got it. Now I would like understand client’s business. In that regard, I have two questions. First, 
what are the different business categories the client operates in? Second, what is the contribution of 
each of these businesses to the overall revenue?
The client is essentially a manufacturer and has three business segments based on product type–
mining and construction equipment, metro train coaches and non-combat defense vehicles. 
Currently, the first two segments contribute 40% of total revenue and defense contributes 20%.
I have another question here. What is the growth in revenue of each of these segments?
While the metro train coaches segment is growing at 3-4% annually, the other two segments have 
been seeing a decline of 1-2% annually leading to a stagnant revenue.
Thanks. This helps. I will take 30 seconds to structure my approach. So, I intend to analyze the 
problem in four parts. I will first analyze each of the segments individually to find growth 
opportunities. Then, I will reconcile the opportunities to build a growth strategy.
Sounds Good. Go ahead.
I would first like to analyze the metro train coaches segment because it is one of the biggest 
growing segments and is also growing. Also, in India as more and more cities are implementing 
metro project sit looks like a lucrative segment to me.
You are correct. Even the company entered into this segment a few years back to overcome the 
decline in revenue due to other two segments.
Great. Before I look into growth opportunities, I need to clarify about their business model. I have 
two questions. First, are the metro train coaches standardized or customized as per requirement? 
Second, does the company sell coaches to metro train operators like Delhi Metro Rail Corporation?
Answering the first question, coaches are made as per the customers’ specifications. And, you are 
correct, they sell coaches to rail operators which are usually PSUs. As such the selling process 
involves bidding for tenders. However, in the selection process, the officer has some discretion in 
choosing the supplier.
Got it. What is the competition like in this industry?
So, there are two more players. One of them is a local private manufacturer while other is Japan 
based manufacturer. The foreign player has been losing the market in recent years.
Interesting. Is it because of low cost of manufacturing for local players while foreign player also has 
to bear transportation cost and import duty?
Yes, you are correct.
Indian PSU – Interview Transcript
Growth Strategy | Transportation | Challenging
2024-2025 Page 144

===== PAGE 145 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is an Indian PSU that is into multiple businesses. They need your help in devising a growth strategy for next 10 years.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• The target metric for 
growth could be revenue, 
profits, market share, 
GMV etc.
• Understand the business. 
Questions could also be 
asked in a structured 
manner
• Set the overall structure, 
divide it into multiple parts
Case Facts
• Metro train coaches' 
segment is growing at 
3%-4% annually, the 
other two segments are 
declining at 1%-2% 
annually
• Coaches are made as 
per the customers’ 
specifications
• There are two more 
players - a local private 
manufacturer and other 
is a Japan based 
manufacturer
• The client has the latest 
technology
• The private player is 
known for better 
service.
Indian PSU
Recommendations
• For the metro train coaches, better after sales service which includes maintenance, repair etc. can be provided
• The client can have separate relationship manager for each of the customers to build long term relationship 
• The client can look for metro train projects coming up in South-East Asian countries especially the neighboring countries of India like Nepal, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Sri 
Lanka etc. 
• In terms of horizontal integration, client can look into other needs of rail operator like engine, rail line etc. In backward integration strategy, they can get into steel/ iron 
sheets making business. 
Key learnings
• The case was qualitative in nature, a working knowledge of the various pillars of business segments and how they can be leveraged can bring additional brownie points.
Business 
Segments
Mining and 
construction
Metro train 
coaches
Non-defence 
combat vehicles
Growth in 
Revenue
Existing Business New Business
Existing 
Market
New 
Market
Horizontal 
Integration
Vertical 
Integration
Service 
Differentiation
Product 
Differentiation
Cost 
Reduction
New 
Customers
New 
Geographies
Forward 
Integration
Backward
Integration
Growth Strategy | Transportation | Challenging
2024-2025 Page 145

===== PAGE 146 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
OTT Platform Growth – Interview Transcript (1/2)
Growth & Acquisition | Digital & Media Sector | Video Streaming | Challenging | Bain Partner Case 
The company has a freemium model and has an app and website. Its free version is monetized by
advertising revenue and has a total user base of 30 Mn people. The premium version is available for
INR 150/ month and has a total subscriber base of 3 Mn people.
Okay. So, is there a particular segment you want me to focus on for this growth strategy?
Yes. Please focus only on the premium customer base.
Sure. I would like to know a little about the platform. What content do we offer and in what
languages? Is there any content difference between the free and premium models? Do we produce our
own content or do we license it from 3rd parties?
Your client is a pan-India video streaming OTT platform like Hotstar, Netflix etc. Due to the
competitive industry their growth has stagnated. It wants you to devise a growth strategy.
I would like to understand the objective of our client. What does he mean by growth? Is he referring
to the top line of the company or bottom line of the company?
The client wants us to focus on topline growth and ignore the cost side.
Okay. Does the client have any targets, timelines or budget in mind? Are they open to exploring new
businesses or expanding outside India?
Look at a 2-fold strategy with plans for short-term (1 year) and long-term growth. There are no
specific targets. Ignore budgetary constraints and foreign expansion. Stick to the present business.
Alright, I will explore ways to achieve both short-term and long-term growth. Further, can I know a
little about the business model of the company?
We offer entertainment content like movies, TV shows and short films across various genres. Our
content is both in English and Hindi. A large chunk of our English content is produced in-house while
all our Hindi content is licensed. In-house content is only available on the premium version. This holds
true even with some of our licensed content.
Great. Can I know a little about our user demographic? Also, do we have any idea on user perception
of our content?
Our content is well received by the users. Within English we have noticed that our in-house content
receives much more traction than licensed content. Most of our users are urban youth.
Is this trend purely due to the quality of our in-house content or are there any other factors at play?
A part of it is due to our content quality. But there are 2 more contributing factors. Firstly, a lot of
licensed content is also available on other platforms which reduces their demand. Also, we follow
extensive marketing for our in-house content which results in its high popularity.
Ok. Can I know what the competition in this market looks like?
80% of the market consists of a few major players (Netflix, Prime, Hotstar, Sony). Rest is fragmented.
Okay. I have enough information to proceed. Growth can be through 2 major levers – Organic and
inorganic growth. I will first focus on organic growth.
That looks fine. How do you plan to achieve Organic growth?
Revenues from premium segment can be divided into number of customers and revenue per
customer. However, both these are interconnected. I will focus on increasing number of customers.
This can be done in 2 ways - increasing our target market size or our share in the target market.
How do plan to increase the target market size?
Given that we are urban-centric, we can look at increasing our presence in tier-2 and below areas.
This will require targeted marketing and might also need the introduction of regional content.
We don’t plan to enter the regional content market or divert focus to tier-2 cities as we feel there is
still a lot of untapped potential in tier-1 urban areas.
Alright. Then, we can look at diversifying from entertainment content by going into sports, news etc. 
This require a lot of content acquisition and is more of a long-term plan.
That seems interesting but is a massive jump from where we are. Limit your analysis to the current
content base that we have. Why don’t you look at increasing the market share of the existing
business?
To increase our market share we can focus on content-related factors or non-content-related factors.
In non-content related factors, we can look at improving platform factors like UI/UX, suggestion
algorithms, account sharing prevention or look at widespread marketing.
We are already on par with major competitors when it comes to the factors you mentioned. What
else can we explore?
Then we can look at tweaking our pricing to see if overall revenues increase. Is the Rs 150/ month the
only payment plan we have? How are competitors priced?
Yes, that is our only pricing plan. Aside from Netflix, we charge more than our competitors.
Considering, the competitive industry we can look at reducing our prices. But a detailed analysis needs
to be performed on whether the resulting market share increase will compensate the price
reduction.
Good point. Let's say that reducing prices will lead to larger revenues. How will you implement this?
Instead of outright reducing the prices permanently, discounted limited-time offers can be given. This
will create subscription urgency and leave the door open for any future price increases. Additionally,
we should add, annual plans, mobile-only plans and distinct subscription tiers to offer greater flexibility
to subscribers. I feel that all this combined will help us realize our short-term growth.
Great. How do you plan to achieve the longer-term growth we target?
Here we can look at content-related factors. Given that our in-house English content is performing
well we should keep that up. The big gap I see is with our Hindi content. Looking at the insights from
our English segment, I feel we should start producing in-house Hindi content.
Good point. But our in-house production team doesn’t have experience in the Hindi segment.
We can develop this capacity from scratch but going the acquisition route for inorganic growth might
be easier. Are there any Hindi content producers in the market that we can acquire?
There is a small company ABC which distributes original content via its YouTube page and website. It
has around 5 Mn YouTube subscribers and its content is well liked. But its website, meant for paid
users has low traction. They are struggling to monetize their high-quality content.
Given their potential and the issues they are facing, ABC can be a viable target. I shall evaluate this
acquisition by looking at financial and non-financial factors. Under financial factors, I shall explore the
benefits and the costs. Under non-financial factors, I shall explore cultural fit and legal aspects. Starting
with the benefits – is it fair to assume that a chunk of ABC’s loyal users will switch to our premium
service upon acquisition? Plus, there would also be non-ABC users who would switch from our free
model to our premium model.
Yes, that is fair. Assume that ~0.5 Mn users will be added due to the ABC brand and ~1.5 Mn of our
free users will turn premium.
Great, that would mean ~2 Mn new premium users added over a period due to the acquisition. Do
we know how much we may have to pay for acquiring them?
Due to monetary issues faced by the target, we believe that we can acquire them for ~INR 90 Cr in a
cash plus stock deal.
By those numbers, I see that we are acquiring ~2 Mn premium users at a cost of INR 450 per user
(i.e., 90 Cr/ 2Mn). What is our present customer acquisition cost? Can we finance the INR 90 Cr deal?
Yes. There are no issues in financing this deal. Our current customer acquisition cost is Rs 5001 which
is also around the industry average.
2024-2025 Page 146

===== PAGE 147 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
OTT Platform Growth – Interview Transcript (2/2)
While ABC has produced exceptional content in the past, there is a major risk in if they will continue
to do so. Hence, giving them creative freedom and any additional support will be critical in the initial
stages. What works for us is that as ABC's management will also hold company stock after this deal,
they will have a major incentive to perform well. Further, we must consider if widening our Hindi
content base will have any negative impact on English-friendly subscribers who may move to other
niche platforms. Another critical decision we must take is under whose name to brand ABC's new
content and what to do with their YouTube Channel.
Great. We can take those up in later discussions. Let’s close the case here. Thank you.
Great. This deal seems to present us with a huge upside even without considering any future new
users outside of our firm and ABC. This deal will also offer massive synergies – more bargaining
power with production houses and advertisers; and overall better value proposition to users. Further,
due to digital nature of the business and small scale of ABC, integrating it with us won’t be a hurdle.
Great. Why don’t you analyze the non-financial aspects of this deal?
Both companies cater to youth, and I feel that giving ABC creative freedom & retaining their top
management will preserve their existing culture and content quality. We must also be careful in the
legal structuring of this deal to ensure that we get exclusive access to their past and future content.
Perfect. Why don’t you briefly outline the post-acquisition risks and considerations?
Growth & Acquisition | Digital & Media Sector | Video Streaming | Challenging | Bain Partner Case 
2024-2025 Page 147

===== PAGE 148 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Key Learnings
• Understand objective well and structure growth plan in broad segments to cover every aspect. Be cognizant that short-
and long-term growth works differently.
• In M&A cases quantifying benefits and costs can be very tedious. Best to ask for data upfront and take it forward. 
Using basic metrics (like CAC here) can help justify decisions. Doing a complete valuation is not usually possible.
Recommendations
• Short-Term: Proceed with the updated pricing plan with limited time
discounts, multiple subscription levels and a mobile only plan.
• Long-Term: Begin detailed due diligence of ABC and start negotiations.
Also identify alternate targets to keep options open.
c
Your client is a pan-India video streaming OTT platform like Hotstar, Netflix etc. Due to the competitive industry their growth has stagnated. It wants you
to devise a growth strategy.
Growth FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Important to understand 
growth objectives – topline vs 
bottom-line, timelines, targets, 
constraints etc.
• Essential to understand the 
business model, the current 
state of users, the nature of 
content etc.
• In qualitative factors like 
content – it is essential to 
understand what makes it 
popular – just the content or 
the surrounding marketing etc.  
• Navigating competitive 
landscape is essential in growth
• Just the idea of reducing price 
isn’t enough, implementation is 
also important.
• Here the acquisition target was 
provided and only the analysis 
of if we should acquire was 
needed. Detailed market scan 
will be needed in selecting our 
target if not provided.
Case Facts
• Client has English and 
Hindi entertainment 
content.
• No issues on cost side 
and focus only on India.
• Look at both short-term 
and long-term growth.
• Focus only on revenues 
from the premium 
segment. 
• In-house content is only 
produced for English and 
sees more engagement 
than licensed content.
• Client doesn’t want to 
expand into regional 
content or any other 
content types (news, 
sports etc.).
• Client is open to 
acquisitions and has the 
financial capacity for it.
OTT Platform Growth – Case Structure
Revenues
Existing Business New Business
Related 
Diversification
Unrelated 
Diversification
Organic Inorganic
# Customers Revenue/ 
customerx
Market Size Market Share
New 
Geographies
New Content 
Genres
Non-Content 
Factors
Content 
Factors
Pricing UI/ UX Algorithms
Variety Quality Relevance
M&A Framework
M&A
Joint Venture
Is there 
anyone 
selling?
Should 
you 
acquire?
Financial
Non 
Financial
Benefits
Costs
Target company 
value addition Synergies
Target Buying 
Price
Integration 
Costs
Cultural Legal & 
Regulatory
Post 
acquisition 
risks and 
factors
Use inorganic route for Hindi 
in-house content acquisition
Click here for 
Panorama Report!
Growth & Acquisition | Digital & Media Sector | Video Streaming | Challenging | Bain Partner Case 
2024-2025 Page 148

===== PAGE 149 =====

M&A and Due 
Diligence cases


===== PAGE 150 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
AI Startup Acquisition – Interview Transcript
M&A + Due Diligence | E-commerce | Easy 
Sure, let’s look at the culture fit of the organizations. Is it okay for me to assume that the target 
company’s employees must be used to a largely flat organization that promotes new ideas and 
risk taking. While the E-commerce giant would have more structured processes, although the HR 
would be trying to maintain an entrepreneurial culture.
Yes, that sounds like a fair assessment. 
Understood. While this difference in hierarchy and incentives can lead to clashes, they are not 
significant enough to hinder the merger altogether. The common thread of a fast-growing 
entrepreneurial culture exists, which can help with the target firm’s employees adjusting to the 
new organization. 
Sounds good! 
The risks would involve firstly the chances of attrition of the developers behind the AI model due
to change in deliverables and operational focus. This would reduce how well customized the
model could be for the E-commerce platform. Secondly, innovation in the field can lead to
leapfrogging of technologies which can render our acquired firm redundant.
Great! Let’s move on to the next parameter.
In terms of the benefits, firstly the team with their expertise in AI can help develop new AI based
features for the app. This can further improve customer experience and their lifetime value.
Secondly, the founders can be made part of the senior product team, where they can help align
the top management’s vision with new emerging AI/ML technologies. Lastly, the tech team’s costs
can also be reduced which would have been needed to deal with after sales service issues.
Sounds good. What about the risks?
So, summarizing the parameters we have looked till now, the NPV of the company post 
acquisition will be 300 cr, which is above the current ask of 250 cr. The risks involved can lead to 
a scenario where we suffer a loss, but the other potential benefits of incorporating AI in other 
business functions and top management decision making more than balance out those risks. The 
culture fit is also not a significant issue; therefore, we can go ahead with the acquisition.
Alright. Let’s stop here. Well done. Thank you. 
Sure.
Great! Then we get the NPV of 300 cr. Let’s move on to risks and benefits?
Yes, the assumptions seem fine.
Great! How will you estimate the % increase in sales?
To estimate these benefits, we can rely on data from the client about customer attrition due to
bad post purchase service and effectiveness measures of target firm’s technology such as increase
in customer satisfaction scores.
Sounds good!
Can you please provide me with the EBIT margin, estimated % increase in sales, and effective tax 
rate?
Coming to the financial feasibility, I’d be calculating incremental cash flows from improved
processes, and deduct the future cash flows from the existing services model of the target firm.
Sounds good, please proceed.
I’d like to estimate the incremental cash flows out of our client’s improved customer experience
and streamlining of after sales services. The improved customer experience will benefit the
company by increasing repeat purchases. Streamlining of sales services will help reduce overhead
costs of support staff. It can be broken down into a formula as follows:
Incremental CF = EBIT(1-T) * % Increase in sales - Services revenue
Your client is an Indian E-commerce platform. It is looking to acquire a young AI focused startup. 
The asking price is 250 cr. The client wants your input to value the acquisition and determine if it 
should go ahead with it.
Okay, understood. I’d like to understand the parent company a bit better. What are their 
offerings, scale of operations and target markets?
The client is a pan-India operating E-commerce platform focused on beauty and personal care 
products. It has an annual revenue of 5000 cr. Its target market is the upper-middle class 
population, especially women because of its product offerings.
Great! Can you give me an idea of the acquisition target company as well, specifically about their 
core product, business model and scale of operations?
It is a recent phenomenon, no specific time frame.
Yes! That’s correct. The company wants to improve its backend technology, especially to 
improve customer relations and support services efficiency. They believe the target firm’s 
technology and expertise will aid the same.
Got it. Since the client is acquiring the target company for its technology and expertise, will the 
target firm continue to run its operations of selling services or exclusively focus on the client’s 
firm?
Good question! The client wants the acquired firm to exclusively focus on the parent company’s 
operations post acquisition.
Understood. Usually, startup valuations can be constrained by previous rounds of fundings. Can 
you provide details of the same along with their valuations?
For now, you can assume there are no such constraints.
The target company works on a service model, where their AI software generates and offers 
valuable insights to companies based on their customer interaction calls. They are a young startup 
with annual revenue of just 5 cr. 
Understood. I believe the objective of the acquisition is a strategic one then?
Sure!
Got it. So, I’d like to focus on three aspects to judge the opportunity: financial feasibility, Risks 
and benefits and culture fit between the organizations.
Yes, we can start with that list. 
Understood. So, our Incremental CF = 5000 * 0.10 * (1- 0.2) * 0.05 - 5 = 15 cr. Can I assume the 
hurdle rate to be 20% and a growth rate of 15%?
Great! Would it be okay if I take a few seconds to structure my thoughts?
Sure. The EBIT margin for last year was 10%, effective tax rate of 20% and you can take the
increase in sales as 5%.
2024-2025 Page 150

===== PAGE 151 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Recommendations 
• Inquire about target and acquiring company’s details first to deduce the objective of acquisition from your end. 
• In case of technology based firm’s acquisition, cross check for the possibility of reduction in revenues from old operations due to focus on parent compa ny’s tech needs.
• State your assumptions of hurdle and growth rate, then verify from the interviewer if you  can move forward with them.
Key Learnings
• In case of complex data based calculations, simply stating the variables also works.
• In case of strategic acquisition, ask for a roadmap moving forward to understand how operations will change.
Your client is an Indian E-commerce platform. It is looking to acquire a young AI focused startup. The asking price is 250 cr. The client wants your input
to value the acquisition and determine if it should go ahead with it.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• It is good to start by 
understanding both the 
acquiring and target 
companies scale and scope of 
operations.
• Objective of the acquisition 
needs to be clearly identified. 
Here, the scenario of a 
strategic acquisition changes 
the approach moving 
forward.
• Incremental cashflows should 
also account for loss of cash 
flows in case of change in 
focus of operations.
• In case of complex data-
based assumptions, simply 
listing out the variables to be 
considered should be 
enough.
Incremental CF = EBIT(1-T) * % Increase in sales - Services revenue
Incremental CF = (5000 * 0.10) * (1- 0.2) * 0.05 - 5 = 15 cr
Investment Criteria
Financial 
Feasibility Benefits
NPV of 
project
Increased 
sales
Reduced 
overhead
AI Startup Acquisition 
M&A + Due Diligence | E-commerce | Easy 
Change in 
operational focus 
of employees
Technological 
advancements 
can lead to 
leapfrogging of AI 
tech
Develop new AI 
based features 
for the app
The founders can 
be made part of 
the senior 
product team
The tech team’s 
costs can be 
reduced
Case Facts
• Client is a pan-India E-
commerce platform 
focused on personal 
care products with 
annual revenue of 5000 
cr.
• Target firm provides 
post sale service 
optimization through an 
AI model.
• EBIT of 10%, Effective 
tax rate of 20%, 
increase on sales as 5%.
Better 
After-Sales 
service
Reduction 
in support 
staff
Loss of 
existing CF
% increase 
in sales
Customer attrition rate
CSAT increase due to Tech
Culture FitRisks
Entrepreneurial 
setup
Click here for 
Panorama Report!
2024-2025 Page 151

===== PAGE 152 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
PE Investment Proposal for a Road Asset – Interview Transcript
M&A + Due Diligence | Private Equity | Moderate 
Your client is a global PE firm looking to partially diversify into investing in infrastructure 
assets. Currently, they are evaluating an investment proposal for a highway project. They 
have hired us as consultants in this regard.
Firstly, I would like to understand more about the firm in terms of its investment focus and 
portfolio.
Our client is one of the largest PE firms based out of USA. For two decades, they have 
been investing in growth-stage startups across the globe and have an AUM of ~$70 Bn. The 
firm’s vision is to become a full-fledged alternative investor. Recently, they have raised 
another fund with an investment focus on infrastructure assets.
I see. In this regard, what would our scope of work be?
The client has hired us with two specific mandates:
1. To help them draft a standardized investment checklist
2. To assess the risks involved in the investment proposal under evaluation
Great. So, I have a few questions pertaining to the investment proposal under evaluation. Is 
this a greenfield project or investment in an existing highway? Also, what is the proposed 
location?
This is an investment proposal for a 500 km greenfield highway project proposed to be 
built between Chennai and Coimbatore. 
Sounds good. Now let us focus on the risk assessment of the investment proposal under 
consideration?
Sure. I would look at the risks in a sequential manner by categorizing them as follows:
1. Pre-construction risks 2. Construction risks 3. Operational risks 4. Financial risks 5. Exit 
risks. Does this sound good?
Absolutely. You may proceed with this.
Sure. I would do a detailed risk-assessment of the following risks:
a. Pre-construction – Over-bidding risk, risk of breaching T&C of tender, risk of people not 
clearing highway construction site, risk of not finding a technical & strategic partner
b. Construction period – risk of construction delays, risk of failure to meet quality 
standards, regulatory clearances
c. Operating period – risk of more frequent repairs & maintenance, risk posed by alternative 
modes of transport and alternative routes between Chennai and Coimbatore, toll collection 
effectiveness, accidents
d. Financial risks – Cost overruns during construction, inflation overshoots, increase in cost 
of funding
e. Exit risks – risks of not finding a buyer, not getting the desired valuation
We are done. Thank you.
I feel I have adequate information to get into the case. The investment criteria should be:
a. Economic attractiveness – Revenue model, financial projections, break-even analysis, 
profitability
b. Funding plan – debt-equity mix, debt repayment terms, interest rates, convertible 
instruments.
c. Technical capabilities – past credentials of technical partner, construction expertise, 
technological capabilities for toll collection, maintenance of highway, accident prevention
d. Valuation and returns – NPV analysis, IRR computation, payback period
e. Others – Construction risks, operational risks, exit risk, regulatory considerations?
Interesting, As per my knowledge, these infra projects involve a bidding process and 
specific commissioning objectives. Could you tell me more about the same and the 
investment objectives of the client?
That’s correct. The union government has initiated a tender process for the project 
wherein the interested investors are required to submit a closed-bid. The project would be 
granted on a Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) basis.
Client’s investment objectives are as follows:
1. Achieve an IRR of 25%
2. Investment horizon of 10 years
Got it. Finally, I would like to know about the revenue model, funding structure in terms 
of Debt-Equity mix, construction & operating period and any technical / financial / strategic 
partner that we are looking to onboard.
Good questions. Revenues would primarily be earned through tolls and rentals from way-
side amenities. The proposed debt-equity ratio is 60:40. Construction is supposed to be 
completed within 3 years and the operating period will be 20 years. The client will have to 
onboard a technical partner with construction expertise and may look at onboarding State 
govt. as a strategic partner
Can you elaborate a bit on the financial model template and NPV/IRR analysis?
Sure. The financial model layout should be as follows:
1. Construction period: Costs incurred to develop the asset will be capitalized. Interest on 
debt will also be capitalized.
2. Operating period will include:
a. Revenues: Tolls (based on traffic and fee projections); Shop rentals (fixed rentals based 
on area and variable rentals based on sales projections)
b. Operating costs: Annual repairs and maintenance basis road quality, weight of vehicles, 
projected wear & tear; salary to staff on toll booths and housekeeping staff; Electricity & 
other general expenses
c. Depreciation: Based on useful life of asset
d. Interest: Based on debt amortization schedule
e. Tax: Basis tax laws
2024-2025 Page 152

===== PAGE 153 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a global PE firm looking to partially diversify into investing in infrastructure assets. Currently, they are evaluating an investment proposal for a 
highway project. The client has hired us with two specific mandates:
1. To guide them draft a standardized investment checklist
2. To assess the risks involved in the investment proposal under evaluation
Approach/ 
Framework
Investment Criteria
PE Investment Proposal for a Road Asset - Framework
Economic 
Attractiveness Funding Plan Technical 
Capabilities
Valuation & 
Returns Risks
Revenue Model
Projections
Break-even
Profitability
Debt:Equity mix
Repayment term
Interest rate
Convertibles
Past credentials
Construction expertise
Technological capabilities
Toll collection
Maintenance
Accident prevention
NPV Analysis
IRR computation
Payback period
Pre-
construction
During 
Construction
Operational 
risks Financial risks Exit risks
Over-bidding
T&C breach
Site clearance
Technical partner
Strategic partner
Construction delays
Quality standards
Regulatory clearance
More frequent R&M
Alternative routes
Alternative modes of transport
Toll collection effectiveness
Accidents
Cost overruns
Inflation overshoots
Increase in funding cost
Failure to:
Find a buyer
Get desired value
M&A + Due Diligence | Private Equity | Moderate 
2024-2025 Page 153

===== PAGE 154 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
IPL Team – Interview Transcript
Due Diligence | Sports Management | Moderate | Bain Buddy Case
Your client is a PE firm. They are considering investment in an IPL team. The client wants you to 
evaluate this investment and suggest a bid price.
Before I start, I would like to ask a few clarifying questions. 
Sure
What does the client intend to gain out of this?
Our client has a small but growing catalogue of sports investments. They believe the Indian sports 
growth story and want to investment. They expect to make a profit from the investment.
Can you tell me more about the client’s previous investments in sports teams? Where are the 
teams based out of and which sports leagues are they a part of?
The client has invested in three teams so far all in USA. These include teams in the NBA, the 
MHB and the MLS which is a soccer league.
Alright. Moving on to the team they are considering investing in, can you tell me about their 
performance?
The team ended up as the runner-up two seasons ago. They have ended up in the seventh 
position in the last season.  
Do we know why the team is on the market? Why are the current owners selling the team?
The current owner is a PE firm, and they want to exit to capitalize on their investment.
How much stake does our client intend to purchase? Are there other firms bidding for the team?
Our client intends to purchase a majority stake in the team. We do not know if other firms will 
place a bid for the team or not. 
Thank you. Let me start evaluating the investment. I intend to first look the sports team; the IPL 
at large and then analyse if the investment is a good fit for our client.
Sure, go ahead.
To analyze the team, I will look at the current profitability, try to estimate the growth, and then 
analyze the risks.
Let’s start by estimating the team’s profitability. Can you list the revenue heads first?
I believe there are the primarily four revenue heads for an IPL team, namely revenue share of 
broadcasting rights, merchandise sales, ticket sales and sponsorships. Am I missing anything?
No, that covers it. 
Do we have any data for these revenue heads?
The broadcasting deal was for 40,000 crore rupees over 5 years. Merchandise revenue was 115 
crore rupees, sponsorships bought in 175 crore rupees and ticket sales bought in a further 10 
crores rupees.
Alright. Do we know the cut that BCCI takes for the broadcasting revenue.
They take 50% of the total broadcasting rights.
Alright. After BCCI’s cut, we are left with 20,000 crores. I assume this is split evenly among all 
the teams. Therefore, each team earns 2000 crores over the broadcasting contract’s 5 years, 
resulting in a revenue of 400 crores rupees per team per year.
That’s correct.
Adding the four heads up, we have a yearly revenue of 700 crore rupees.
Good job. Let’s move to the costs. Can you list down the cost heads?
The major cost heads I see are the licensing fees paid to BCCI, costs to run their home stadium, 
player costs, equipment costs and cost of producing merchandise. Have I covered everything?
Yes, you have.
Do we have any information on these cost heads?
BCCI takes a fee of 450 crores, player costs are 50 crores and you can assume all other costs to 
add up to 60 crores.
That results in a total cost of 560 crore rupees. Subtracting this from the calculated revenue, we 
have a gross profit of 140 crore rupees per year.
Good job. What will you look at next?
I will try to project the growth in profits over the investment horizon. Do we know how long the 
client intends to hold team?
Let’s assume the client holds it for five years. How will you estimate growth.
If we look at our revenue heads, the broadcasting deal will give us a fixed income over the next 
five years. The other three heads are likely to grow linearly with IPL’s viewership.
We can perform a regression on with past revenue and viewership numbers to understand the 
relationship between it.
That seems fair. How will you estimate the growth in viewership?
We can use regression to estimate the growth in viewership as well. Besides statistical 
techniques, we can also look at viewership of comparable leagues such as the Premier League in 
the UK as a steady state projection for the IPL and project future viewership based of it. 
Good job. Let’s move on and look at the Indian sports industry at large. What risks do you see in 
the industry?
There are three risks over the next five years that the client needs to be concerned about. 
Firstly, at a league level, IPL viewership needs to continue growing at a healthy rate to attract 
sponsors and allow merchandise sale. Secondly at a team level, if any team starts increasing their 
expenditure on players during bidding, it may prompt other teams to do so as well to maintain 
competitive parity. This will reduce our profitability. Lastly, at a player level, any scandals may 
negatively effect viewership for certain teams which may hurt the overall brand.
Finally, evaluate the investment fit.
While looking at investment fit, I will look at the synergies the client and the team can leverage, 
the evaluation and the exit strategy.
Analyze the synergies and fit.
Alright. As the client’s experience in handling sports teams can allow the client to bring in 
innovative management techniques and practices from the American leagues. Additionally, it 
would be a good fit for the client portfolio as the IPL team would bring diversification to the 
portfolio. Therefore, the client should invest.
Lastly, please calculate the bid price.
Does the client have a target rate of return? 
Yes. You can take a hurdle rate of 20%.
Do we also know the historical growth rate of revenues for the team?
The team profit has grown by 10% over the previous three years.
Alright. If we take these values, we can calculate the value of investment by diving the profit 
estimated by the difference between the hurdle rate and growth rate. That would result in an 
investment value of 1400 crore rupees. Therefore, I would not suggest the client to bid more 
than this amount.
Thank you. We can stop here.
2024-2025 Page 154

===== PAGE 155 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Recommendations
• The estimated revenue for the team is 700 crore rupees per year and the estimated cost is 540 crore per year.
• The client should bid for the IPL team. The maximum bid the client should place is 1400 crore rupees.
Key Learnings
• It is critical to understand the client and the asset with preliminary questions before starting such a case.
• It is important to split a due diligence into parts so as to cover the asset, the industry and the portfolio fit.
• The revenue and costs can be split into different heads to make the guesstimate easier. 
Your client is a PE firm. They are considering investment in an IPL team. The client wants you to evaluate this investment.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• It is important to understand 
the objective of the client, in 
this case, profit.
• Enquire about the PE firm, its 
current portfolio and the IPL 
team.
• For the estimation of the bid 
price, figure out revenue and 
costs and divide by the 
hurdle and growth rates.
• Make a list of revenue and 
cost heads and ask the 
interviewer for data.
• It is essential for the 
interviewee to list methods 
to project growth.
• Add more structure to 
industry risks by breaking it 
down by unit of analysis.
Case Facts
• Client wants to earn a 
profit by investing in the 
IPL team.
• The client already has 
investments in sports 
teams in USA.
• The client expects a 
hurdle rate of 20%.
• The annual revenues 
are 700 crore rupees
and the costs are 560 
crore rupees.
• The client is looking to 
exit in 5 years.
Investment Criteria
IPL Team
Due Diligence | Sports Management | Moderate | Bain Buddy Case
Portfolio 
Fit
League 
level risks
Team Performance Industry 
Risks
Team level 
risks
Player level 
risks
Revenue Costs Growth
Broadcasting
Sponsorships
Merchandising
Ticket sales 
Players
Equipment
Licensing
Merchandise
Stadium
Regression
Comparable 
Markets
Synergies
Evaluation
Exit
Licensing 450 crore rupees
Players 50 crore rupees
Others 60 crore rupees
Total Cost 560 crore rupees
Broadcasting 400 crore rupees
Sponsorship 175 crore rupees
Merchandising 115 crore rupees
Ticket Sales 10 crore rupees
Total revenue 700 crore rupees
Revenue 700 crore rupees
Cost 560 crore rupees
Gross Profit 140 crore rupees
Bid Price 1400 crore rupees
2024-2025 Page 155

===== PAGE 156 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Chain of Phoenix Shopping Malls – Interview Transcript
Due Diligence | PE | Real Estate | Moderate to Challenging
Your client is a PE firm. They plan to purchase the chain of Phoenix shopping malls in India.
How should they go about it?
Before I begin, I would like to ask a few clarifying questions. I want to understand the client’s
portfolio and the financial objective?
The client has a mixed portfolio of different sized investments but none in the real estate space.
They are planning to enter the real estate market and are interested in acquiring this because it
can potentially be a part of their portfolio and could generate revenues for them. They plan to
exit in the next 8-10 years.
Great, Can I know some details regarding the malls? As far as I know, there are two malls in
Mumbai (Phoenix Marketcity and Palladium). Where are the other malls located? Are they also
in Metro cities? How big are the malls? How old are they and what kind of a malls are these, in
terms of the kind of shops and stores in the mall (normal retail stores, luxury shops, anchor
shops like Big Bazaar etc.)?
Sure, There are total of 14 malls present in other Tier 1 cities at premium locations. The
average mall size is comparable to the standard industry average, the malls are 5-10 years old,
and they have a mix of normal retail shops, luxury shops and anchor shops.
Okay, should I look at the price and valuation also?
No, just focus on the other factors for due diligence.
Great, in order to analyze whether this is a sound investment, I would like to look at
the attractiveness of the industry, the attractiveness of the assets, competitive moats and key
risks. Is this a sound approach?
Yes, go ahead.
Sure, I would want to look at the attractiveness of the industry. Looking at the industry, real
estate can be categorized into commercial and residential. In commercial we further have office
space, retail, warehousing and other spaces. Malls would fall in the retail space. I would want to
look at the retail real estate environment in these different Tier-1 cities. Specifically, I would
want to look at how the industry is in terms of market size & constraints of growth (capital,
supply-demand and talent required).
Great, Go ahead.
Looking at the market, I am assuming that the market size would be big enough for a PE firm to
be interested in. Hence, I would want to look at the constraints of growth, looking at the real
estate sector. I believe it is pegged to capital expenditure (as it requires money to set up the
malls & also run them) and is dependent on how capital flows (as most of these businesses run
on leverage). Therefore, it will also depend on the macroeconomic factors of the country. It also
seems more cyclical than other industries. Is this a fair analysis?
Yes, good observation. Let’s say the market size is attractive and the macroeconomic factors are
also showing a positive sign. What would you want to look at from the supply and demand lens?
Sure, from the supply-demand lens, I would want to know the trends of the demand which is
the absorption and supply which is the new mall additions and vacancy in the last 4-5 years in
each of the cities.
Sure, the average vacancy has decreased, also new mall additions are slow despite an increase in
absorption.
Great. Now, I have a good understanding of the market. Looking at this, it seems that the
industry outlook is good because the increase in demand is more than the increase in supply.
Based on the trends, the industry attractiveness looks good. Is there anything else that you
would want me to look at?
No, you have done a good analysis. Now look at the attractiveness of the assets. To make it
easier let’s just focus on the Phoenix Marketcity Mall that you had mentioned.
Great, so I’ll focus on the Phoenix Marketcity mall located in Mumbai. In order to look at the
attractiveness of this asset, I would like to look at the profitability of the mall. I can break down
Profits as Revenues minus Costs. The major sources of Revenues that I can think of would
primarily consist of rental income and other sources of revenue which would consist of
advertisements, car parking and renting out open space for events, etc.
Looking at the Rental Income I can break it down into Total area of the mall* % leasable area* %
Occupancy * Rent per sq. foot per month. The other sources of income can be taken as certain
percentage of the rental income.
I would now like to know how we compare in each of these variables w.r.t. the industry. Also,
since the mall is located at a premium location, is it safe to assume that the occupancy and the
rent per sq. foot would be higher than the industry average?
Yes, you’re right. Are you sure you want to compare these variables only with the industry
average? Before the comparison can you quickly estimate the rental revenue of the mall?
Sure, estimating the rental revenue of the mall:
Assuming % occupancy = 90% and Rent per sq. Foot = INR 200 per month. Rental income
would have a fixed & a variable component. Fixed would include the fixed rent of the store and
variable component would include a percentage of the store’s sales.
1) Fixed Rental Income = Total area of the mall * % leasable area * % Occupancy * Rent per sq.
foot per month
2) Leasable Area = Number of floors * Avg. number of shops per floor * Avg. area per store
3) Calculations for one floor. A normal store in a mall would be of a 3BHK size, having an area
of 1,000 sq. feet. An anchor store would have a size of 5,000 sq. feet and there would be bigger
shops like a Reliance Mart or a Movie theatre having an area of 10,000 sq. feet. Assuming 50
normal stores, 5 anchor stores and 1 large shop per floor. The total leasable area would be,
50*1,000+5*5,000+1*10,000 = 85,000 sq. feet. For 4 floors total leasable area would be
4*85,000 = 3,40,000 sq. feet. Calculating the fixed rental income. It would be Total leasable area
* % Occupancy * Rent per sq. foot per month 3,40,000*0.9*200, which is approximately INR 6.1
Cr per month. The rest of the revenues can be calculated as a % of this fixed rental revenue.
Does this seem fair?
Yes.
Coming back to the previous question, I would also want to compare it with the past trends of
the mall itself. Do we have any data regarding this?
Yes, the average rent per sq. foot and occupancy is growing with a CAGR of 12% & 4% over the
last three years, respectively.
Okay, Since there is a positive trend in the rent per sq. foot & occupancy of the mall, I infer that
the asset is attractive. Another aspect that I would like to consider is that I would want to look
at the number of tenants, quality of the tenants, tenant stickiness and the churn rate. For
example, big players like PVR Cinemas or Inox Cinemas, would be sticky tenants. Could you tell
me more about the number and types of tenants in the mall?
Sure, the mall has 90% sticky tenants like Inox, Shoppers Stop, H&M etc. and 10% unsticky
tenants which consists of local retail shops.
Okay, my forecast is that in the near future, the occupancy rate would be high as there are
more sticky tenants as compared to unsticky tenants.
Good. Can you quickly tell me the main cost heads?
The major cost heads would be depreciation costs, maintenance costs, insurance
costs, utilities cost and employee costs. Is there something that I am missing out on?
2024-2025 Page 156

===== PAGE 157 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Chain of Phoenix Shopping Malls – Interview Transcript
Due Diligence | PE | Real Estate | Moderate to Challenging
No, Good Job. Now, focus on competitive moats.
1) Since, we have 90% sticky tenants, the exit costs of sticky tenants would be high which would
act as a competitive moat.
2) Looking at it from the perspective of a commercial mall, we need to look at what gets people to
commercial malls and most of the time it is the brand. The second moat is brand. If the mall has a
good reputation, bigger brands will want to associate with the mall. For example, Marks & Spencer,
Zara, H&M, Lacoste etc. With these kinds of shops on board, the mall would have a higher footfall
of customers.
Okay, that’s a good analysis. Can you identify the key risks associated with this asset?
I would like to look at the risks in the following categories:
1) Technological Risks 2) Financial Risks 3) Competitive Risks 4) Regulatory Risks 5) Infrastructure
Risks
a. Technological Risks : E-Commerce is huge threat to the offline retail space. Players like Amazon
and Flipkart are catching up quickly.
Financial Risks: Since the client would be taking a huge debt, the kind of cost of capital that the
client would have to incur to undertake this investment and maintain it would be huge and would
expose the client to a lot of financial risks. If the occupancy rate goes below a minimum threshold,
there would be a problem as we’ll have an asset in the balance sheet that won’t be generating
future revenues.
Competitive Risk: If another mall opens within the vicinity of the Phoenix Marketcity mall, it would
be facing competition from that mall.
Regulatory Risks: If the government changes the land usage pattern by making it a residential area
or if there is a highway coming up in the nearby area, the retail stores could go for a toss and the
client might have to shut down the mall. But usually, the government does not do that.
Infrastructure Risk: We would need data regarding the seismic capacity of the mall, as during an
earthquake it might get damaged.
Well done. What is your final recommendation?
The industry is growing, and the Phoenix Marketcity mall is outperforming the industry in terms of
leasable area, occupancy rate, rent per sq. foot. It is also showing competitive advantage through
high exit costs and brand value. The magnitude and the probability of the risk occurrence is low. I
would conclude by saying that it is a good investment opportunity, assuming it is available at a
reasonable valuation
2024-2025 Page 157

===== PAGE 158 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Y our client is a PE firm. They plan to purchase the chain of Phoenix shopping malls in India.  How should they go about it?
Interviewee notes
• Client- PE firm, interested in 
investing in the chain of 
Phoenix malls in India
• Look at industry 
attractiveness, Asset 
Attractiveness, Competitive 
moats and Key Risks
Observations/ Suggestions
• Always remember to compare the asset with the industry as well as the asset’s past performance.
• Further brainstorming on mitigation of risks can be touched upon briefly
Case Facts
• Malls are at a premium 
location in Tier 1 cities, 5-
10 years old, have a mix of 
shops
• Vacancy has decreased, 
absorption has increased.
• Rent per sq. foot and 
Occupancy rate have 
increased for the 
Marketcity mall
Approach
Rental Income
Other (Parking, 
Advt. etc,)
Depreciation
Maintenance, 
Utilities 
Technological
Regulatory 
Financial
Infrastructure
Due 
Diligence 
Industry 
Attractiveness
Asset 
Attractiveness 
Key 
Risks
Competitive 
Moats
Constraints 
of Growth 
Market Size Revenues 
Costs 
Exit Cost 
Brand 
Competitive
Chain of Phoenix Shopping Malls – Interview Transcript
Due Diligence | PE | Real Estate | Moderate to Challenging
Capital, Supply-
Demand
Fixed Rental Income = Total area of the mall* % leasable area* % Occupancy * Rent per sq. foot per month
Fixed Rental Income = # of floors *Avg # of Shops per floor* Avg Area per shop % leasable area* % Occupancy * Rent per sq. foot per
month
No of floors= 4, % Occupancy= 0.9, Rent per sq. foot per month = INR 200
Per floor:
No of retail shops = 50, Area= 1000 sq. feet. | No of anchor shops = 5, Area = 5000 sq. feet | No of Big shops= 1, Area = 10,000 sq. feet
Total Area per floor = 85,000 | Total Area = 85,000* 4= 3,40,000 sq. feet.
Revenue= 3,40,000 * 0.9 * 200 = INR 6.1 Cr per month
Rental Revenue Estimation
Click here for: 
Panorama Report!
2024-2025 Page 158

===== PAGE 159 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Online Grocery Start-up – Interview Transcript
Due Diligence | Private Equity | E-Commerce | Moderate
That sounds promising. Such businesses usually run either on an inventory-based model, where 
they own a wide range of products and deliver through dark stores; or an aggregator model, 
wherein they connect customers to nearby stores. Which model does our BlinkMart follow?
Good question – BlinkMart has over 400 dark stores and follows the inventory-led model.
Great, I think I have enough information to get started. As a checklist, I would propose a 3-stage 
model – Pre-diligence stage, Diligence stage, and Post-diligence stage.
Alright, can you briefly describe each stage?
Sure, in the diligence stage, we would be looking at a wide range of factors through the lens of 4
major parameters – Market, Competition, Business, and Customers.
Okay, how about we delve into each one by one?
To analyze the market for online grocery, we would try to understand three sub-factors:
a) Market size
b) Future market outlook
c) Drivers of the market
Your client is a private equity firm which wants to invest in an Indian online grocery start-up -
BlinkMart. They need your help with the commercial due diligence of this deal.
Understood. Before I proceed, could you please tell me a bit about the PE firm – its portfolio and 
primary sectors?
The PE firm usually invests in large consumer businesses, but it wants to diversify and add start-
ups to its portfolio. This would be their first such investment, and thus you would need to help 
them with a DD checklist.
Okay. I have some idea about the online grocery market, but I have some questions about the 
target. What markets does it currently operate in and how much market share does it hold?
Our target is one of 4 major competitors, all of which operate in tier 1 cities. It holds around 35% 
of the market and is owned by the largest food delivery company in India.
Definitely. In the pre-diligence stage, we look at 3 major parameters –
1. Investor’s profile – the stage it usually invests in and the typical deal size
2. Existing investments – the portfolio of industries and business it has invested in, and 
prospective synergies it can leverage
3. Investment objective – the purpose of such investment
Sounds okay. What are your thoughts on this?
I think the client’s profile does not exactly match this investment as it usually invests in large, 
established businesses. But its existing investments are also in consumer industries, which could 
help create synergies. Additionally, several global PE firms are now adding start-ups to their 
portfolio in order to benefit from their high growth rates. Thus, it does not sound like a bad idea 
for our client to look at an investment in BlinkMart.
Yeah. Then, let’s get to the diligence stage.
Alright, let’s try to estimate the market size. How do you think we can approach it?
One way to get an estimate the size of the Indian online grocery market is through industry 
reports and expert interviews. However, since it is a nascent industry, reports would only be 
directional. Another way is to guesstimate it using relevant filters.
We have some estimates for the TAM in terms of users from secondary sources, but let’s test 
them through a quick guesstimate. What all factors would you consider?
Alright, to get an idea about the total addressable users of online groceries, we would need to 
delve into regional, age, income, and occupational factors.
That sounds good to me. Go ahead.
These start-ups are mainly targeting earning professionals (including working couples) and 
students studying outside their homes. They aim to provide convenience to those who have the 
spending propensity. Thus, the estimation process would be something like this:
1. On the first level, I would want to restrict the target market to tier 1 cities, similar to how 
current players have done. 
2. Subsequently, I would narrow down to 2 major age groups – 18 to 25 and 25-40. The first 
age group comprises of students and the second corresponds to working professionals.
3. For these people, the focus should be on upper middle and rich sections as the others 
would prefer a nearby mom-and-pop stores over an additional delivery fee.
4. Finally, for the 25-40 age group, we would only include the working professionals who are 
majorly the ones availing this service.
Based on this, our market size would arrive to approximately 10.4 million.
Great. I think the market side is okay. Let’s talk about competition.
Alright, in my knowledge, the market in focus is intensely competitive. While we do enjoy a 35% 
share in a market with just 4 players, it might also be because of our parent brand’s strength.
There are certain headwinds in terms of the competition that are noteworthy:
1. There is high level of price competition in the market as customers want deep discounts.
2. The competitors are not very differentiated in their offerings, given similar offerings, prices, 
and delivery times. Often, even the app UI/UX is similar across brands.
3. Customer cost of switching is low thus brand loyalty is difficult to build.
Given these insights, finding a moat is difficult.
Good insights. How about the business part?
We would have to consider these 2 sub-factors under business:
1. Financial – Revenue streams strength, range, and sustainability; fundraising
2. Non-financial – Operations, tech, and people (founders + employees)
In my knowledge, most existing start-ups in this space have spent heavily on marketing and their 
unit economics are not feasible in the long run. Is that true for BlinkMart as well?
Unfortunately, yes. BlinkMart also gives deep discounts, and adding its warehousing and delivery 
costs give out a negligible margin. We can skip the non-financial aspects and talk about the 
customers.
Sure. To validate the customer side, we would analyse the following aspects:
1. Behavioral – buying frequency, average order value, basket composition, churn
2. Psychographic – adoption level, satisfaction, share of wallet
We can analyse these using consumer data we collect as well as through surveys.
Tier 1 population – 120M
Age 18-25 – 15% Age 25-40 – 35%
Income – 30% Income – 30%
Students – 100% Professionals – 40%
Got it. What would you include in the post-diligence stage.
Once the diligence is completed and we decide to invest in BlinkMart, we will look at the (a) 
valuation & transaction, (b) post-investment growth strategy, and (c) exit.
Sounds great. We have a decent checklist – let’s close here.
2024-2025 Page 159

===== PAGE 160 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Key Learnings
• It is important to gather the exact requirement of the client. In this case, the PE firm wanted to conduct a commercial due d iligence.
• Usually, commercial due diligence is just one part of a more comprehensive diligence process, which is carried out by all inv estment companies (PE, VCs) before making an investment.
• In this case, the client was new to start-up investing, and specifically wanted an initial checklist.
• Starting with pre-diligence stage helps us understand the investor’s perspective better, and information learned here can be effectively utilised in later stages.
• The diligence stage is the most critical part of the case, and thus needs to be the most detailed - thus broken down into 4 major components which are individually analysed.
• Market size calculations are the usual sizing guesstimates that we solve in other types of cases. However, these need to carry more nuanced insights in DD cases.
• The post-diligence stage makes the case more comprehensive by detailing the steps post diligence. 
• An investment recommendation might or might not be requested in the case based on the depth of the case and the information provided.
Your client is a private equity firm which wants to invest in an Indian online grocery start-up - BlinkMart. They need your help with the commercial due
diligence of this deal.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Ask questions about the 
orientation of the PE firm -
how and where it usually 
invests.
• Also clarify the objective of 
this investment.
• Basic knowledge about 
industries, revenue and 
operating models, and 
contemporary trends is 
critical for a DD case.
• Understanding the market in 
question is important for 
several factors of the 
diligence stage. These factors 
can often be intertwined.
Case Facts
• PE client wants to 
start investing in 
high-growth start-ups
• Current focus on 
established consumer 
businesses
• Target company is an 
inventory-based 
online grocery start-
up; 400+ dark stores, 
35% market share
Diligence
Online Grocery Start-up
Due diligence
Post-diligencePre-diligence
Investor 
profile
Existing 
investments
Investment 
objective
Market Size
Outlook
Drivers
Competition
Valuation & 
transaction
Growth 
strategy
Exit options
Business
• Financial
• Non-financial
Customers
• Behavioural
• Psychographic
Due Diligence | Private Equity | E-Commerce | Moderate
Click here for: 
Panorama Report 1
Panorama Report 2
2024-2025 Page 160

===== PAGE 161 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Sovereign Fund – Interview Transcript
M&A | Sports Management | Challenging
Your client is a sovereign fund of Saudi Arabia. In a bid to diversify, it aims to acquire a football
club, Newcastle United of the English Premier League. The asking price is $1.3 B. The fund wants
your input to value the company and to determine whether it should acquire Newcastle.
That sounds like an interesting problem statement. To get a better idea of the situation, I would
like to ask a few clarifying questions. In what sectors does the Saudi Arabian sovereign fund
generally invest?
The fund has a wide range of diverse investments. Their primary motive is to further diversify and
move away from its oil sector-dominated portfolio.
Okay, so what would be the motivation of the fund for this particular deal?
The fund already holds a stake in a few global sports teams, including a football team in USA. The
top management is very keen to buy a team in the Premier League to compete with its
contemporaries (other funds) and win the coveted title.
Great, I would now like to now understand any major constraints that the fund might face
considering that it is a major foreign investment aiming for a majority stake in the club. There
might be a minor chance of non-cooperation by the British government.
Yes, the fund is trying to get hold of 100% of the stake. And for now, you can assume that there
are no issues regarding the same. It can facilitate the required transactions and complete the
takeover.
Understood. As I am not too familiar with football, it would be great if you could provide some
information about Newcastle and how the Premier League functions.
Sure. I am an avid football fan so I think that I can do justice to this question. So, English Premier
League has 20 clubs that play head-to-head matches twice (one match in their home stadium and
another match in the opponent’s stadium) in the season. Newcastle United consistently finishes in
the Top 10 positions. It has a rich legacy and a very passionate fanbase.
Great! Do the Premier League teams only play in the League, or do they participate in other
global tournaments?
That’s a good question. They do participate in other English and European football tournaments.
However, for now, you can assume that the team participates only in the Premier League and the
English Cup.
Now that I have a little understanding of football and the club, I would want to determine the
financial viability and operational feasibility to gauge the practicality of the acquisition.
To determine the financial aspects, I would like to look at the major revenue sources and cost
drivers to approximately calculate the cash flows. By taking into consideration the
conventional hurdle rate, I will then calculate the discounted cash flows to determine the Net
Present Value of the club.
Next, I will look at the potential synergies that can positively impact the cash flows. Finally, I
would consider some of the intangible factors that would affect the overall management of the
club by the fund. The above steps would give us a clear idea regarding the operational and
financial feasibility of successfully running the club after the proposed acquisition.
That sounds great. First, let us discuss the financial viability of the acquisition.
Thank you. Can I take a few minutes to jot down the various sources of revenue and the cost 
drivers?
Yes, sure. Please go ahead,
Okay. After imagining myself being at a football stadium, I identified the following sources of
revenue for the club:
1. Ticket sales
2. Prize Money – League, Cup Tournaments
3. A share of broadcasting rights – Global and Local
4. Sponsorships – Kit Sponsors, Team, Stadium, Social Media, etc.
5. Advertisements in the stadiums and the Training centres
6. Merchandise sales
7. Other minor revenues - parking, stadium tours, museum (if present), event hosting, etc.
You have listed most of the sources more or less. Don’t you feel hungry or thirsty when you’re
watching the game?
Being a foodie, I actually do. Keeping that in mind, royalties or revenues from the various outlets
present in the stadium would be another major source of revenue.
Okay. Coming to the numbers, while the broadcasting rights bring in about $175 M yearly for the
club, it gets an additional $70 M from sponsorships and advertisements and $30M in Prize Money.
You can go ahead and calculate other major sources of revenue and you can ignore the other
minor revenues you have listed above.
I will first start with the concessions and the outlets; I am assuming that around 50% of the
attendees would be interested to buy something from the stores. Their purchase value would be
around $20 per game (burger, sides and a drink).
Yes, that sounds fair.
Now moving on to the ticket sales, They would be playing 18 home games according to the
league schedule. I want to assume that Newcastle would play around 12 home games in the Cup
Tournaments to round it up to a total of 30 games. Additional information regarding the number
of seats in the stadium would help me out to finish the estimate.
The seating capacity of the St. James Park is 60,000.
Thank you. Now, amongst the 60,000 seats, there would be a wide range of seats based on the
view, proximity to the field, amenities for the stands, etc. For example, some would be premium
seats (grandstand), some would be reserved for the season ticket holders and the remaining seats
would be for normal viewers. The tickets would be priced very differently in the above-
mentioned cases. Moreover, I would expect an almost 100% attendance for the games against the
legacy teams and high-profile games, however, the attendance might drop down to about 70% in
the other low-profile league games and cup tournaments.
Yes, those are very good observations. For now, you can assume that there is only one type of
ticket that is being sold and it costs $50. And regarding the attendance, you can consider an
average occupancy to be 80%.
Sure. That will decrease the hassle a little. In the case of merchandise, to keep it simple, I am
considering that about 2 M items per year are sold by the club – both for the fans and the
tourists. The average order value would be around $100. Considering that the practice is
generally outsourced, can I assume that the club gets royalties of around 10% from the outlets?
Good, that’s a fair assumption.
I will take a minute to quickly calculate the total revenue. The club would earn about $381.4M
based on the assumptions.
2024-2025 Page 161

===== PAGE 162 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Yes, absolutely! Now let's take a look at the costs side.
Okay. Before going ahead, I would like to ask about the status of the stadium and other facilities.
Does the club have its own stadium, or does it rent the complex and other facilities?
Again, that’s a good question. The club owns the stadium.
Thank you, then there would be no cost involved for renting the facility. The major costs would
constitute:-
1. Player salaries
2. Office and administration costs (including the salaries of the workers and the management
3. Sales and advertising
4. Stadium and training facilities’ operating expenses and maintenance
5. Interest expenses, Depreciation, Amortization, Taxes
Yes, you have covered all the heads. Let me give you some information regarding the costs. The
overall salaries and front office costs add up to $150 M annually. The club spends $90 M on sales
and advertising. Finally, it costs around $40 M for facility maintenance. Other costs can be ignored
for simplicity.
Thank you. Then they would add up to $280 M in total. To calculate the value based on the
discounted cash flow, can I assume the hurdle rate to be 15% and the growth rate of the cash
flows to be 5%?
Yes, that sounds fair.
So based on the above assumptions, the valuation of the club ends up being $1.014 B. So, we can
take it as $1B.
Great! Now, as you pointed out, let's look at the synergies.
Okay. I will look at the revenue side synergies first.
1. Increase in Sponsorship Value - the fund can leverage its relevant contacts to get more
appealing and valuable sponsorships
2. Broadcasting Deals - negotiate a better broadcasting deal because Newcastle would gain a
broader fanbase in new countries
3. Higher revenue from stadium outlets - can negotiate for better royalties, establish new
guidelines and change some outlets
4. Merchandise – owing to the greater fanbase, there would be substantial increase in sales
Sovereign Fund – Interview Transcript
Stores in Stadium
Attendees/Game 48,000
Attendees buying at the 
stores 50%
Purchase value/ attendee $20
Number of Games 30
Total Value $14,400,000
Ticket Sales
Stadium Capacity 60,000
Average attendance/ Game 80%
Ticket Price $50
Revenue/ game $2,400,000
Number of Home Games 30
Total Ticket Sales 72,000,000
Merchandise
Items sold 2,000,000
Order Value $100
Royalty 10%
Total 20,000,000
Revenue sources calculations
M&A | Sports Management | Challenging
Sound spot on! Let's move ahead to the cost synergies.
The synergies on the cost side would be-
1. Management cost reduction
2. Eliminating redundant assets – Advertising, Facilities expenses etc.
3. Financial savings – Possibility of access to cheaper capital
Yes, that sounds fair. You can consider that the synergies can be obtained from the first year
itself and Newcastle would gain additional cash flows of $50 M.
That’s massive. This would push the valuation to $1.5B and considering that it is well above
$1.3B, we can go ahead with the acquisition purely on financial terms
Seems like it. The deal looks favourable for the fund.
However, we need to look at some intangible factors to determine the overall fit of the
acquisition.
1. Management Competence – The current capability of the administration needs to be
evaluated. Based on this the owners might move ahead with major restructuring. There is a
possibility of cash flow improvement, nonetheless, the club might face a backlash from the
fanbase and the players.
2. Ability of the fund to run a legacy football club
3. Access to Capital
4. Risks of achieving required synergies – The synergies add $500M to the valuation which is
just $200M above the ask. Minor deviations in operating principles to achieve synergies
would adversely impact the cash flows of the club, and thus the valuation
5. Culture clashes – the plausibility of major differences in the culture of the club and the
management principles of the owners
6. Regulatory barriers – British Government, English Football Association, etc.
7. Macroeconomic risks involving football and England
8. Opportunity Cost – availability of better investment opportunities
Considering the M&A history of the fund, all the above concerns can be dealt with. You have
done a great job assessing all the core aspects. We can close the case for now.
2024-2025 Page 162

===== PAGE 163 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Recommendations
• According to the financial calculations, we are getting a valuation of $ 1.014B. Comparing to the asked price of $1.3B, this is of a lower value. However, considering the various cost and revenue 
synergies, we are able to observe an improvement in the valuation of the club at $ 1.5 B . So, we can go ahead with the acquisition. 
• In terms of soft fit, the fact that you have mentioned that the concerns can be dealt as the these have been handled previous ly, the club can go ahead with the acquisition.
Your client is a sovereign fund of Saudi Arabia. In a bid to diversify, it aims to acquire a football club, Newcastle United of the Premiere League. The asking
price is $1.3 B. The fund wants your input to value the company.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• It is important to understand
the motivation behind the
fund’s acquisition of the club.
• Analyse the case using the
hard fit (financial aspects) and
the soft fit (intangible factors)
M&A framework.
• The candidate themselves
should exhaustively list out
the sources of revenue and
costs. Subtly provide hints if
required.
• It is essential for the
interviewee to point out the
various synergies that would
help the fund improve its
cash flows.
• Mentioning about the general
consumer trends pertaining
to people watching sports
would fetch brownie points.
Case Facts
• Hurdle rate is 15%.
• The major facts can
be taken from the
tables on the right.
• The overall salaries
and front office
costs add up to
$150 M per year.
The club spends
$90 M on sales and
advertising. Finally,
it costs $40 M for
maintenance.
Decision to Acquire
Hard Fit (Valuation)
Revenues
Broadcasting Rights $200,000,000
Merchandise $20,000,000
Sponsorship and Ad 
revenue $75,000,000
Ticket Sales $72,000,000
Royalties from Stadium 
stores $14,400,000
Total Revenue $381,400,000
Costs
Player Salaries
$150,000,000Admin Costs
Sales & Advertising $90,000,000
Facility Maintenance $40,000,000
Total Costs $280,000,000
Valuation
Revenue $381,400,000
Cost $280,000,000
EBIT $101,400,000
Synergies $50,000,000
Hurdle Rate 15%
Growth Rate 5%
Final Valuation $1,514,000,000
Sovereign Fund
Synergies
Revenue 
Side
Cost 
Side
Soft Fit
M&A | Sports Management | Challenging
Media Rights
Sponsorships
Advertisements
In-stadium royalties
Merchandise Sale
Miscellaneous
Revenues Costs
Player Salaries
Office & Admin 
Costs
Family Maintenance
Sales & Advertising
Other – Interest 
exp, Misc., etc.
Internal Factors
Management 
Competence
Fanbase support
Culture Clashes
External Factors
Access to capital
Regulatory Barriers
Risk of Synergies
Click here for 
Panorama Report!
2024-2025 Page 163

===== PAGE 164 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Pepper Spray Manufacturer
M&A + Unconventional | Manufacturing | Challenging
Your client is a pepper spray manufacturer witnessing an increase in negative reviews on Amazon. 
Please find out why and suggest appropriate actions. 
That’s interesting. Am I right in assuming that pepper spray here refers to the self-defence device the 
general public uses? 
Yes.
Also, is this increase specific to any one product?
The company manufactures only one standard product.
Who are our client’s competitors? Are they facing a similar issue? 
Yes, our competitors are also affected by this increase.
Okay. Has this increase been observed across geographies? Since when and by how much?
This trend has largely been driven by reviewers from Ahmedabad for the past 1 month. The 
magnitude is not important for the purpose of this case. 
What has been the trend in sales? An increase in negative reviews may not be bad news if overall 
sales are rising and the proportion of critical feedback is the same or lower. 
The sales have been rising but the proportion of negative reviews has been rising even faster. 
That cannot be good news. Thank you, I have enough information to start solving the case, I will take 
a minute to organize my thoughts. 
Sure. Go ahead.
We could look at internal and external factors to study this change. I want to examine internal factors 
first. By internal I mean specific to the industry, not just our client.
That makes sense. Go on.
I will further distinguish product-specific and purchase-specific factors. Within both, we can look at 
changes across three stages - before, during, and after using or purchasing the product. 
That sounds good. How will you analyze these three stages?
Product-specific factors will include packaging or portability (before use), efficacy or reliability (during 
use), and side effects or reusability (after use). Some examples of purchase-specific factors are 
product discovery (before purchase), checkout convenience (during purchase) and return or 
exchange options (after purchase).
Good. You have hit the nail on the head. The negative reviews are focused on the side effects of the 
client’s pepper spray. People in Ahmedabad started using our client’s product to defend against stray 
dogs. While the spray is safe for use on human beings, it is very harmful for dogs and has led to 
multiple long-term issues. This led animal lovers to criticize our product on Amazon. 
This sounds very new to me. Is it possible for our client to make this product safe for dogs? 
That will reduce its efficacy when used on humans. Our client has shown willingness to market a 
pepper spray specifically meant for dogs, which is milder and does not have side effects. Such 
products are currently available in North America. Can you tell me what organic and inorganic means 
can our clients use to launch such a product?
Organic means would involve developing the product from scratch. This can be done through internal 
development or via outsourcing. Inorganic means would involve acquiring the product. This can be 
either a partial acquisition (product licensing or technology transfer) or a complete acquisition 
(through a merger, company acquisition, or joint venture).
How will you analyze whether acquisition of another company is a good prospect?
I will focus on 3 things. A) Will our client benefit from the acquisition, in line with their objectives? 
This will include topline improvement (for example, through new products, markets or channels) or 
bottom-line improvement (input cost reduction, tax benefits, etc.). B) Do the benefits outweigh the 
cost of acquisition? This involves an analysis of financial benefits of acquisition, valuation of the target 
company, and any transaction costs. Finally, we have C) What kind of risks and challenges exist post-
acquisition? These can again be internal or external. 
Can you give me some examples of internal and external risks?
Internally, examples include soft challenges such as cultural fit issues and key personnel risks or hard 
challenges such as financial or legal risks. Externally, we could consider macroeconomic risks and 
competitive dynamics. 
Understood. Okay, our client seems interested in acquiring another company so it can launch the 
dog-specific pepper spray. It has identified two companies: Company A and Company B. The financial 
benefit to our client will be the same as the total net margin they currently generate.
Company A sells 40,000 boxes yearly for Rs 800 per bottle with a 25% net margin. Company A will 
only accept an all-stock deal. 
Company B sells 20,000 boxes yearly for Rs 500 per bottle with a 20% net margin. Company B is only 
willing to accept an all-cash deal. Our client will rely entirely on borrowed cash to pay for this 
acquisition.
I notice you mentioned the quantity in boxes and while the price quoted was for each bottle. Should I 
assume that each box contains one bottle?
Good catch! No, that’s not true. Company A sells one bottle in each box. However, Company B 
(which is the market leader) focuses on selling combo boxes at low prices. Each box contains five 
bottles. 
Okay! In this case, Company A makes a total net margin of 40,000 boxes * 1 bottle per box * Rs. 800 
selling price * 25% margin every year, which is equal to Rs 80 lakhs. 
On the other hand, Company B makes a total net margin of 20,000 boxes * 5 bottles per box * Rs. 
500 selling price * 20% margin every year, which is equal to Rs 1 crore. 
That’s good. All else equal, which of the two companies should our client acquire?
Assuming equal valuation of both companies, and also assuming that other quantitative and qualitative 
factors are identical, it is important to go back to the terms of the deal you mentioned before.
In case of Company A’s all-stock deal, it will be important to consider the cost of equity of the 
business. On the other hand, in case of Company B, we will focus on the cost of debt. 
How will you use those numbers? 
If the cost of equity is less than 80% of the borrowing cost, it makes sense to acquire company A. 
Otherwise, our client should acquire company B. This is because if we calculate the ratio of total net 
margins to cost of finance (in percentage), it will be lower (and more favourable) for company A only 
when the cost of equity is less than 80% of the cost of debt. 
Say the cost of equity is 12% and a bank loan is available at a rate of interest of 15%, which company is 
more attractive?
Based on my logic above, both companies will be equally attractive in this case. 
I think you are missing something.
You are right. The bank loan will be tax deductible. What is the marginal tax rate for our client?
The client pays a marginal tax of 40%. 
Okay, in this case the effective cost of debt is 15% * (1-40%) = 9%. In such a situation, it is more 
attractive for our client to acquire company B. 
Thank you. We can close the case here. Please do not use pepper spray on dogs!
Thanks to you for an interesting case. Don’t worry, I will not be using pepper spray on my canine 
friends any time soon.
2024-2025 Page 164

===== PAGE 165 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Recommendations
• Our client should choose to acquire Company B over company A in order to facilitate the launch of a dog-specific pepper spray product.
Key Learnings
• Even when using simple frameworks like internal and external, it is a good practice to clarify the meaning of both terms so that the interviewer is on the same page as the interviewee. 
• It is important to focus strongly on the interviewer’s vocabulary. In this case, not spotting the inconsistency in the use of boxes and bottles would have yielded a perverse result. 
• Important concepts from MBA subjects (especially core courses such as financial reporting and analysis) need to be revised thoroughly to avoid mistakes in guesstimates (such as the tax deduction 
on cost of borrowing in this case).
Your client is a pepper spray manufacturer witnessing an increase in negative reviews on Amazon. Please find out why and suggest appropriate actions.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Important to see that the 
interviewer’s first prompt 
might not be a problem to 
solve for. Explore 
possibilities where the client 
would not have a negative 
reaction to the given 
“problem” statement.
• It can be helpful to use 
examples to ensure clarity of 
communication with respect 
to the meaning of each 
bucket.
• Adequate knowledge of the 
M&A framework can prove 
essential in solving such 
cases, combined with basic 
knowledge of finance. 
Case Facts
• Company manufactures 
and sells only one 
product
• Trend seen in 
Ahmedabad specifically
• Use of pepper spray for 
self-defence against 
stray dogs led to 
increasing sales, but also 
resulted in more 
negative reviews by 
non-users due to side 
effects 
• Not possible to have 
common pepper spray 
for humans and dogs
• Cost of equity is 12% 
while interest rate on 
loan is 15%
• Marginal tax rate for the 
client is 40% and loan 
borrowings are tax 
deductible
Increasing number of 
negative reviews
Reducing or constant proportion 
of sales (not a challenge)
Increasing proportion of sales 
(challenge to the company)
Pepper Spray Manufacturer
M&A + Unconventional | Manufacturing | Challenging
Internal factors 
(to the industry) External factors
Product-related reasons Purchase-related reasons
Before use During use After use 
(side effects)
Before 
purchase
During 
purchase
After 
purchase
Company-specific Industry-wide
New pepper 
spray safe 
for dogs
Develop in-house
Outsource 
development
Product Licensing
Technology 
Transfer
Acquisition
Joint Venture
Inorganic means Organic
Merger
Deal 
rationale
Cost-benefit 
analysis
Risks and 
challenges
Company A B
Boxes 40,000 20,000
Bottles per box 1 5
Selling price Rs 800 Rs 500
Net margin 25% 20%
Total net margin Rs 80 lacs Rs 1 crore
Cost of funds 12% 15%(1-tax)
= 9%
2024-2025 Page 165

===== PAGE 166 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
M&A | Pharma Sector | Challenging | BCG Partner Case
Pharma Giant’s Acquisition– Interview Transcript
The CEO of a publicly listed global pharma company has approached us and wants to know your 
opinion on whether they should acquire patent and selling rights for a new drug that cures balding 
which is developed by a pharma lab.
Firstly, I would like to understand the objective of our client to undertake such an exercise. Are 
there any targets in terms of revenue growth or is it for a strategic motive?
The client doesn’t have any specific thing in his mind, but if it finds the deal to be attractive then 
the drug will be rolled out across the globe. The deal on offer is for $ 1Mn and wants us to 
analyze the attractiveness and recommend a course of action.
I would like to know more about the client in terms of its customers, products,past experiences, 
capabilities of the company and where does it operate in the value chain? And are there any 
constraints with respect to time or financial flexibility?
Client is a vertically integrated end-to end player and has a diverse portfolio of drugs for diabetes, 
cardiovascular diseases. The company is doing very well in its markets and there are no 
constraints. Apart from that it also has a few fitness related prescription and OTC (Over The 
Counter) drugs.
What is the probability of success in the different phases of the trials? As it would be required for 
calculating the expected value of the clinical trials. Also, if Phase 1 turns out to be a failure,then 
we will have to abandon the project without going for Phase 2. And likewise for taking a decision 
for phase 3 depending on the phase 2 success.
Good question, the probability of success in phases 1, 2, and 3 is 0.1, 0.2, and 0.4 respectively.
So, basis the given information we can calculate the expected value of the clinical trials cost to be 
$ 8 Mn (Please refer to the framework). And similarly considering the probability of success for 
the project the expected revenue can be calculated as (Probability of success for Phase 1* Phase 
2* Phase 3)*($3Bn)= $ 24 Mn. So, the net difference of revenues and costs is $ 4 Mn. Now do 
we know the average tax rate?
You can consider a flat 50% tax rate.
So, will you buy the patents, Yes or No?
Yes, the client should go ahead with the acquisition at the price of $1Mn. 
Thank You. We are done with the case.
It is estimated that 1,00,000 people will buy this drug if it turns out to be successful and we will 
price the drug at $10,000.
So that makes the market size of $3Bn, given that everyone is ready to pay the price of $10,000.
That is correct, now let’s move forward with the financial analysis. How will you proceed?
I would like to first look at the costs side. For that, I will break down the costs into fixed costs 
and variable costs. The fixed costs will include the clinical trials costs, plant setup costs, marketing 
and distribution cost, and other fixed costs. On the variable side the raw material, labor cost 
would be included. So now do we have any quantitative data for the same?
Yes, we do. The variable costs are $4Mn and the marketing and distribution is also $4Mn, setup 
cost and other fixed costs are also $4Mn and the costs for the different phases- 1, 2, and 3 of the 
clinical trial are 4Mn, 20 Mn and 100Mn respectively. So now given this information what should 
be your next question?
Okay, thank you. Now I would like to know more about this new balding drug. What is the key 
differentiator for it? What is the efficacy of the drug and are there any side effects?
Good question, so the patient needs to take a single pill and it is good for the entire lifetime. It is 
hard to tell the exact efficacy since the clinical trials for the drug are yet to be made, though the 
researchers are expecting the drug to have a good efficacy with negligible side effects. While 
there are a few other balding cure drugs in the market, but the new drug is expected to be 
significantly better. What do you think are some of the substitutes or competitors for the drug?
I think there are 2 classes of bald people - the ones who do not do anything about it medically 
and use wigs, caps or just ignore balding. And the other group that opts for certain treatments. 
The treatments can be further divided into invasive and non-invasive techniques that are available 
in the market. Invasive techniques technique including injections, and surgeries and Non-invasive 
ones include various traditional medicines like ayurveda, specific oils, and non-traditional drugs.
Yes, that’s a comprehensive list.
Great now that I have got a fair understanding of the client, the new drug and the competition 
I would like to take a few seconds to structure thoughts, if that is okay with you?
Sure, take your time!
Sure. I would like look at this problem with a five-pronged approach:
• Market attractiveness: Here I would like to look at the market size, the growth potential and 
the degree of competition.
• Financial feasibility: Here I would calculate the fair value of the project using the NPV method 
and the way in which finance can be arranged.
• Synergies and fit: How the new drug fits in the existing portfolio of the client and the benefits 
or opportunities that the company will gain out of this acquisition of the new drug.
• Operational feasibility: Challenges that need to be tackled to undertake the entire process 
post-acquisition, including the clinical trials, setting up the plants and distribution & marketing.
• Risks and benefits: Any potential risks that need to be taken into account before engaging in 
the process.
Yeah, I think we can work with your list. Let’s begin with the market attractiveness, in that how 
will you estimate the market size for the new drug?
I would like to construct a formula to estimate the market size:
(# of bald people)*(fraction opting for a treatment)*(Fraction opting for the non-invasive 
technique)*(fraction of that opting for the non-traditional techniques)*(fraction opting for the 
drugs)*(market share of our drug)*(price of our drug). Now to proceed further do we have any 
data, or should I make some assumptions?
The net value of the new drug should then be $ 2 Mn (i.e., $4Mn*50%). Now the current offered 
deal of $ 1 Mn seems to be attractive as the NPV of the project would remain positive. 
Yes, the client would be happy with the net $ 1Mn NPV. What else would you consider further?
I would now consider the synergies and fit for the new drug. Given the clients diverse portfolio 
of drugs and presence across the globe, the new drug will fit well in the fitness category. And 
given the disruptive nature of the drug and its quick impact, the brand image of the company will 
get a boost if the drug is rolled out successfully. On the operational feasibility aspect, the existing 
plants and distribution capabilities of the company can be leveraged easily to roll out the drug 
globally.
Okay now what do you think are some of the risks in going ahead with the proposal?
Sure. I have collated the risks into the following categories:
• Internal risks:
• Failure in phase trials: If the risk appetite of the company is low then there could 
be a threat to the financial flexibility of the company due to the huge costs 
involved in the trials.
• Delays in the clinical trials will further put a burden on the company.
• As this is a single dosage drug, the growth rate of the drug would be very low.
• Beware of specific logistic considerations for the drug.
• External risks:
• Threat of counterfeit drugs can damage the brand image of the company.
• Country specific regulations: The company will have to deal with the countries to 
get the drug approved.
2024-2025 Page 166

===== PAGE 167 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Recommendations
• Short term: a) Do a through technical due diligence of the drug by using the expertise of company researchers.
b) Plan and expedite the process of clinical trials to get timely approvals for rolling out the drug globally.
• Long term:  a) Leverage the technical expertise to ensure the drug quality and leverage the existing distribution network of the company with direct promotional strategies directly to the consumer.
b) The plant’s equipment can be salvaged as the demand for the drug will drop due to its one-time usage, therefore get rid of excess capacity.
Key Learnings
• It is important in cases like this to be comprehensive, and hence bucketing the problems into different sections helps in struct ured thinking.
• Beware of calculation mistakes in a quant heavy case, multiply the probabilities appropriately to calculate the expected value.
• Go through the industry insights to be aware of the drug development phases in case of pharma industry.
Your client is a CEO of a global pharma company. The client has an offer to buy the patent and selling right for a newly developed drug that cures balding. It
wants you to analyse the acquisition dilemma and give recommendations.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• It is important to understand 
the objectives and 
constraints of the client
• Enquire about both the 
acquirer and the acquiring 
company and understand the  
product mix, geography, type 
of integration across supply 
chain, competitors.
• It is convenient to structure 
at each step instead of laying 
down a laundry list of things.
• Make use of formulas.
• Assume all the values are 
mentioned as the present 
values. Therefore, ignore the 
time value of money.
Expected Revenues 
= 0.1*0.2*0.4*3 Bn = 24 Mn
Pharma Giant’s Acquisition
NPV = 2 Mn (Tax = 50%)
Phase I
4 Mn
Phase II
20 Mn
Phase III
100 Mn
4Mn + 0.1*20Mn 
+ 0.1*0.2*100Mn 
= 8 Mn
0.1 0.2 0.4
0.9
Phase 1 failure Phase II failure Phase III failure
0.60.8
Other Fixed costs
4M
Marketing & 
Distribution cost
4M
Variable cost
4M
Expected cost of 
Clinical trials
Expected Cost = FC+ VC
= (8+4+4+4) = 20 Mn
Market 
attractiveness
Financial 
attractiveness
Technical due 
diligenceSynergies & fit
Market Size Growth 
potential
Existing 
competitors
Bald people 
globally
Fraction opting 
for treatments
Fraction opting 
for drugs
No treatment: 
Wigs, caps
Treatment
Evasive
Acquire the new drug ?
Operational 
feasibility
Fair value < $ 2 Mn
Market share of 
our drug
Risks and 
benefits
Internal
External
Usage Frequency
Price of our drug
Non-Evasive
Traditional
Non-Traditional
Clinical trials Setup plant Marketing & 
distribution
M&A | Pharma Sector | Challenging | BCG Partner Case
Click here for Panorama Report!
2024-2025 Page 167

===== PAGE 168 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Private Equity firm – Interview Transcript
Due Diligence | Social Impact | Challenging 
Sure, I would like to now look at the various synergies that we can draw from the previous 
investments. I would like to look at revenue synergies, cost synergies and efficiency synergies.
In terms of the revenue synergies, based on our other investments in home services sector we 
can drive demand for the company and identify skill training opportunities. The client can draw 
cost and efficiency synergies from similar foreign-based startups in our portfolio by means of 
technology transfer.
Good points. Let's talk about the equity holding and investment amount that we should look at. 
What factors would influence this decision?
Firstly, I would like to understand the nature of the investment – are we looking at a strategic 
investment with a majority stake or are we looking at a financial investment.
As I mentioned, we plan to exit in 5-6 years, so it is a financial investment.
I can take population growth as a proxy for the growth in the number of candidates. Similarly, the
commissions will be based on the number of employees that we could place. Knowing 15% profit
margins, we can discount the cash flows to get the present value of the firm.
Good, let’s move on and look at the other factors.
Since we are looking at skill programs, we should be looking at only the unemployed youth and
students. We can use the labour participation rate and unemployment levels to get a figure. I can
then multiply the market with the average fees to get the revenue. To further understand the
revenues from commissions, I would like to know the commission rate and the number of
companies that we are catering to currently and how is the demand expected to change.
Let’s assume that there is enough demand. How would you get the projected revenues for the
next 6 years to estimate the value of the firm.
Right, so if we are looking at a minority stake in the company, the investment would depend on 
the valuation of the company and other possible PE firms who are looking to invest in the same 
company. We should also look at the willingness of the founders about the extent of dilution of 
their shares.
Good points. There are in fact 2 other firms looking to invest in the same company. Let’s quickly 
now look at the various risks and exit options before the client.
Sure. First and foremost, I would like to do a legal due diligence to see if there are any litigations, 
tax liabilities or regulatory compliance issues with the company, which can contribute to legal 
risks. I would look at the debt structure as well as the employee contracts of the company. In 
terms of technological risks, there are chances of obsolesce of some of these skills and need to 
adapt quickly to changing demands. There are economic risks, with respect to getting fees from 
the underprivileged in cases where sufficient government scholarships are absent. There is also 
high competition in the sector and threats from competition who can eat up the market share.
In terms of exit options, the company can look to sell its stake back to the initial promoters or 
another PE firm since there are existing competition.
Alright, I think that’s a comprehensive analysis. Any final recommendation?
That sounds like a fair approach. Explain me your approach to estimate the total market size.
Good question. There haven't been any prior investments and the equity is split equally between
the 3 brothers.
At this point, I feel I have enough information to proceed. I’ll take a moment to structure my
thoughts to produce an overall approach to analyse the feasibility of the investment.
Sounds good, please go ahead.
Okay, I would like to divide the analysis into 3 buckets – firstly estimating the market 
attractiveness and coming up with the valuation of the company. Next, I would like to investigate 
the synergies that we draw from the investments. Lastly, I would like to look at the various risks 
associated with the company. I would also know about the company’s founders and their vision.
That’s interesting. And how is the competitive landscape in the sector where the client operates?
It is a fragmented market and there is high competition from some similar early-stage start-ups.
Do we have any information about the profitability of our client ?
Your client is a PE firm which wants to invest in a company which helps to provide employment 
to underprivileged students via skill development programmes. You need to do due diligence and 
analyse the feasibility of the investment.
Sounds good. Firstly, I would like to understand our client’s motivation behind the investment.
There are two motivations primarily, financials gains and driving social impact.
Okay, does the client have any number about the quantum of investment that it wants to make?
There is no restriction as such. We would like to help in analyzing various factors to decide this.
Okay, and is there any exit multiple that you have in mind or any return that you are expecting 
from this investment?
Yes, the client has invested in similar companies before but none of them are based out of India. 
To answer your second question, our current portfolio consists of growth stage startups from 
the healthcare, services and ed-tech sectors based out of India and other south-east Asian 
countries.
Great. Now that I have information about our client, I would like to know more about the 
company in which we plan to invest. Can you tell me more about the company and their business 
model?
Yes sure. It is a family run company started by 3-brothers. They work with the underprivileged 
students from Eastern-Indian states of Orissa, Bihar and West Bengal. Their business model is to 
upskill students in theoretical and vocational skills and help provide them with employment. They 
get revenue sources include fees from the students at a subsidized amount and commissions from 
the companies where the students are employed.
Thanks for this. Are there specific skills or sectors in which the students are trained?
The students are unemployed youth who are provided training as beauticians, for cutting and 
stitching jobs and as baristas for coffee shops. They are continuously expanding the range of their 
skill program.
Good question. So, we are looking at a 16% CAGR on the investment over a horizon of 6 years 
after which we plan to exit. 
That’s helpful. I would now want to get some information about the existing portfolio of the 
client. Has the client invested in similar companies previously? How does its portfolio look like?
So currently the client operates at 15% net margin while the industry operates at 16% margins.
Is there any other differentiation that the company has?
The company has invested heavily in technology to continuously identify the gap in demand for 
the required skills in the industry. It also uses help to identify prospects and incentivize them to 
join the program by identifying government schemes to avail scholarships and get skilled.
Lastly, what’s the equity structure of the company and has there been any prior investments?
I’ll start by estimating the population of West Bengal, Orissa and Bihar which should be 20% of 
the total population. Next, I would segment the population by age (18-25 years which is 20% 
roughly). We can further look at urban and rural segments and then look at the low- and middle-
income category. Does that sound like a good approach?
Do you think you are missing any other criteria?
Given the demand and good profit margins of the company, the investment looks lucrative, and 
the client should go ahead with it,
Alright, thank you for the recommendation. 
2024-2025 Page 168

===== PAGE 169 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Recommendations (Beyond the transcript)
• a) Do a proper analysis of the competitive landscape to gauge the competitive edge of the target company and also look into the threats of new entrant specially a big player. 
• b) Understand the operating model and the technology used of the target company to gauge the scalability of the business mode l.
Key Learnings
• In cases of due diligence and M&A, the preliminary questions are the most important and adequate time should be given to get relevant case facts.
• The question about financial and strategic investment should have been asked in the beginning. Again, since time horizon was known beforehand, here case facts could have been linked better
• It is important to think of synergies even between existing portfolio of the PE firm to the target company like potential tec hnology transfer from companies in the portfolio operating abroad
• In the guesstimate, it is essential to first lay down the approach the validate from the interviewer if something else is missing
Your client is a PE firm which wants to invest in a company which helps to provide employment to underprivileged students via skill development
programmes. You need to do due diligence and analyse the feasibility of the investment.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• It is important to understand 
the rationale for the 
investment
• The preliminary questions 
should cover questions about 
the client and the target 
company to get important 
case facts.
• It is essential to have a basic 
understand of the private 
equity industry and the 
process of due diligence,
• It is important for the 
interviewee to link important 
case facts to subsequent 
answers. 
• Guesstimates can be 
qualitative or quantitative 
depending upon the 
interviewer. The approach 
should be laid out clearly. If 
numbers are required, 
reasonable assumptions can 
be taken. (For example, 
slightly higher unemployment 
levels in eastern India)
Case Facts
• Objective for 
investment is both 
social impact and 
financial gain.
• 16% CAGR and a time 
horizon of 6 years.
• No issues on cost side.
• No poaching of 
customers by 
competitors.
• The existing portfolio of 
the client and prior 
investments
• The industries that the 
target company caters 
to currently
• The ownership 
structure of the target 
company
• Profit margins and 
industry 
competitiveness
Commercial Due Diligence
Valuation and financial 
feasibility
Intrinsic Value
Private Equity firm
Business 
Model
P
E
S
T
E
L
Market Size
Synergies and Business Model Exit Options and 
Risks
SynergiesAcquirer’s 
Value
Customers
Operations 
Differentiation
Efficiency 
Synergies Financials
Revenue Synergies
Growth Rate
Profitability
Competition
Equity 
Structure
Cost Synergies
RisksExit 
Options
Total Exit
Partial Exit
IPO
Guesstimate Approach: Market size of underprivileged youth seeking jobs
Segment total population to get population of Bihar, Orissa and WB (~20% of total – 25 crores)
Segment further by age groups (18-30 years ~ 20% of 25 crore – 5 crore)
Rural (70%) Urban (30%)
Lower Income group (80%) Lower Income group (40%)
% unemployed and seeking jobs(10%) % unemployed and seeking jobs(15%)
Total number of unemployed youth seeking jobs in the 3 states ~ 30 lacs
Due Diligence | Social Impact | Challenging 
2024-2025 Page 169

===== PAGE 170 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Co-working space – Interview Transcript
Due Diligence | Services | Moderate
Your client is a PE Firm. They want to invest in XYZ, an Indian subsidiary of a global co-working 
space entity. Is this a good investment? What factors would you consider?
I want to ask a few clarifying questions. I want to understand the client’s business. What is the 
average portfolio, expected growth rate from this investment and exit plan?
The client has a mixed portfolio of different sized investments and is looking for a 40% growth
rate on this investment. They want to make an exit in 5 years.
Does the client's existing portfolio include any co-working space?
No, the client wants to diversify their portfolio. What factors would you consider?
First of all, I would like to consider the attractiveness of the Co-working space market. What is 
the market size and projected CAGR for the next 5 years?
It’s a $0.75bn market in India currently. The CAGR is projected at 20.6% as per market sources. 
Do you think it’s justified?
I have a few follow-up questions to assess the CAGR. What is the tier-wise split in terms of the 
geographical presence of the industry?
70% Tier-I and 30% Tier II.
Owing to a maximum presence in Tier-I cities, I want to know how has the historical penetration 
trend been in Tier-I cities.
Penetration grew from 8% to15% in the last 5 years.
This is owing to 3 factors mainly: (i) growth in start-ups, (ii) increasing focus on employee 
wellness & amenities, and (iii) cost optimization efforts due to the rise in real estate prices in Tier 
I cities recently.
Can we conclude that the penetration rate will grow further because these 3 main factors will 
remain relevant?
Yes. What do you think about the future of this market in Tier-II cities?
The same 3 factors are applicable to Tier-II cities as well. Besides, growth of hybrid working & 
infrastructural development in Tier-II cities due to IT industry expansion will further boost the 
penetration.
Would you consider the market to be attractive?
Yes, it seems attractive. Next, to assess the customer value proposition, I will consider whether 
the properties operated by XYZ are located at prime locations, the availability of amenities such 
as gaming, gym & restaurants and also the building grade.
Sounds good, XYZ operates premium buildings fulfilling all the criteria you mentioned. What 
other components would you consider?
I would consider XYZ’s Competitive differentiation. Is the market consolidated or fragmented? 
It is a consolidated market and XYZ is competing with big players such as WeWork, Table Space, 
Awfis, IndiQube etc. Basis what factors will you decide XYZ can compete with them?
It depends on factors such as (i) Ability to book premium buildings before competitors do. This 
depends on builder & broker relations of the company, (ii) Average revenue per seat as 
compared to competitors, (iii) Customer churn, and (iv) Ability to source high-quality fit-outs at 
low cost. However, there is a high risk of competition since big players are already in the market.
Fair points. What are your thoughts on customer value proposition of XYZ?
XYZ has a high brand recall, and since it is a global brand, it provides customers with access to 
the global community, which is a significant differentiating factor for the customers. If the 
amenities offered are premium in nature, that is another differentiator.
Are the occupancy and customer retention rates favorable compared to other players?
Yes, both are favorable at 80% and 50% respectively. 
So, the target has a sound customer value proposition. Next, can we analyse the business model 
and unit economics?
Sure, go ahead
What is the demand split by product offerings? Is it subscription-based vs demand-based?
90% of the revenue comes from subscription-based offering.
Well, that shows stability in revenues. What about the customer mix? What is the split between 
MNCs and big Indian players vs start-ups?
It is 60:40.
That shows the ability to enter into long-term contracts, re-emphasizing stable revenues. 
However, I would like to call out the Asset-Liability management risk. The contract with the 
property owner is usually signed for 3-5 years, leading to a fixed rental cost for XYZ. Contracts 
with start-ups and other small customers would be monthly/ quarterly, and contracts with big 
customers are for 12 months or so. Liquidity risk might arise if customer contracts are not 
renewed. However, the revenues during BAU seem stable. Can we analyse the cost structure 
now? What is the share of rental paid to the space owner, common area maintenance charge, 
and operating expenses?
The structure is 60%, 10%, 30%., which is close to the industry average.
Sounds good. Does rental deals of XYZ beat the industry Average market rent and is the seat 
price to rental ratio over 2 times?
Yes. Average rent paid per seat of XYZ is 67, while the industry average is 70. The ratio is 2.5 
which is close to industry average again.
That means XYZ can get good rental deals from builders. How much is the EBITDA margin?
It is approximately 32%.
The company should expand its current business to achieve an effective return of 40% pa. Are 
there plans for expansion?
Yes, the company plans to use this investment to enter into profit-sharing arrangements with 
property owners in Tier-II cities.
What is the cost structure in case of profit-sharing arrangement?
It is 45%,20%,35%. However, the overall cost per seat will go up by 10%.
The benefit is the reduction of fixed costs, i.e. rentals. We can deduce that the company will 
expand, keeping liquidity risks at a minimum. This is a logical move.
However, there is a risk of achieving the 40% return expected by the fund if these new 
properties don’t achieve the minimum occupancy rate.
So, what is your conclusion?
We should advise the fund to invest in the company because market attractiveness, value 
proposition, competitive differentiation and unit economics seem favorable.
The expansion plan will help the fund achieve its target return at the end of 5 years.
However, we must call out the inherent risks in this sector, being i)Risk from large players in the 
market, ii)Asset-liability management risk in case of rental agreements with space owners, and iii) 
Operating risk of new properties .
That’s a nice way to wrap it up. We can stop here.
2024-2025 Page 170

===== PAGE 171 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a PE Firm. They want to invest in XYZ, an Indian subsidiary of a global co-working space entity. Is this a good investment? What factors would
you consider?
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• It is important to understand 
that the client wants you to 
consider all possible factors 
before deciding if it is a good 
investment.
• Enquire about market 
attractiveness, competitive 
advantage, customer value 
proposition, business model, 
and unit economics.
• It is essential to highlight all 
possible risks before making 
an investment decision.
• Here, the interviewer is 
interested in knowing if you 
can list general factors that 
affect this industry rather 
than get into complexities.
Commercial due diligence
Market 
attractiveness
Co-working space
Key Learnings
• Begin a commercial due diligence interview with questions on portfolio of the PE firm, expected return from the investment un der consideration and exit plan.
• It is essential to approach one component at a time and exhaust all possible factors under that component.
• After the discussion for a component is complete, summarise the strengths/weaknesses identified and highlight related risks (if any). Always be on the lookout for potential risks in case of 
commercial due diligence cases.
• After all components are discussed, support the investment decision and support the same by quickly summarising each component and mentioning all the risks again.
Competitive 
advantage
Customer 
value 
proposition
Business 
model
Scope of 
expansion 
Market size
Market 
growth rate
Penetration 
rate
Penetration 
growth rate
Property 
booking 
advantage
Customer 
churn
Average 
revenue per 
seat
Fit-outs 
procurement
Brand recall
Location & 
Amenities
Occupancy 
rate
Customer 
retention rate
Customer 
mix
Cost 
structure
Average 
market rent
Seat price to 
rental ratio
Expansion 
plan
Geographical 
preference
Analysis 
components
Client 
understanding
Current 
portfolio
Expected 
return
Exit plan
Competition 
Landscape
Global 
presence
EBITDA 
Margin
Expansion 
risks
Due Diligence | Services | Moderate
2024-2025 Page 171

===== PAGE 172 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
AI Enterprise Acquisition for Ecosystem Integration – Interview Transcript
This might require substantial investment in middleware or even re-engineering parts of the 
infrastructure. Moreover, there could be compatibility issues at the software level, where APIs 
and data formats might not align, necessitating further development work to ensure smooth 
interoperability.
Great, let's just assume that the total cost of the initial integration and privacy compliance 
discussed are $50M. Keeping that aside, we should also consider competitive responses. What 
could be the potential impacts from competitors?
Competitors may respond aggressively to the acquisition by ramping up their own AI capabilities 
or launching marketing campaigns to capitalize on any disruption during the integration phase. The 
client needs to be prepared for such competitive pressures by ensuring that the integration is as 
seamless as possible and by communicating the enhanced value proposition to their customers. 
Additionally, the client should monitor the competitive landscape closely and be ready to counter 
any moves by competitors with strategic marketing and product enhancements.
Excellent. Now, let's discuss the detailed financial calculations, starting with the NPV.
First, we will consider the net cash flows over five years of the AI tool’s relevance and assuming a 
discount rate of 10%. The projected annual net cash flow is $200M, based on the assumption that 
the acquisition will result in a $1B increase in revenue with a 25% EBIT margin and a 20% 
effective tax rate. The net cash flow each year would be calculated as the EBIT of $250M, minus 
the tax of $50M, resulting in $200M. This annual net cash flow is then discounted back to present 
value terms using the 10% discount rate. Summing these discounted cash flows over five years 
and subtracting the initial investment of $500M and integration + privacy compliance cost of 
$50M gives us the NPV of $208.15M.
Great, can you also elaborate on the ROI side?
For the ROI calculation, we consider the net profit over the investment cost. The net profit over 
five years is the sum of the annual net cash flows, which totals $1B. Dividing this by the 
investment cost of $550M and multiplying by 100 gives us the ROI. Specifically, $1B divided by 
$550M equals 1.81, and multiplying by 100 results in an ROI of 181%.
Correct. We have covered all aspects now. Can you summarize your recommendation?
That's a good point. Can you elaborate on how technological incompatibilities might impact the
integration process?
Certainly. Technological incompatibilities could arise from differences in the underlying
architecture of the client’s systems and the AI enterprise's systems. For instance, if the client’s
ecosystem is primarily built on one type of cloud infrastructure and the AI enterprise uses
another, there could be significant challenges in integrating these systems.
Given these dependencies and privacy concerns, we should analyze the costs of implementing
robust privacy measures. Finally, assessing the external risks is crucial. Could you provide more
details on potential external risks?
External risks include regulatory challenges with global and regional data privacy laws, potential
technological incompatibilities, and competitive responses in the market.
Thank you. Let's delve deeper into these areas. For regulatory risks, we need to evaluate the
specific data privacy regulations in the markets where the client operates. This includes GDPR in
Europe, CCPA in California, and other regional regulations. The cost and complexity of complying
with these regulations must be factored into the acquisition plan. For example, GDPR compliance
can be particularly stringent and expensive, requiring dedicated resources and systems to manage
data privacy.
Your client, a global consumer electronics giant, is considering acquiring an AI enterprise to 
improve their internal AI assistant. What would be your first step in analyzing this case?
I would start by understanding the client's current situation and their objectives for this 
acquisition. Can you provide more details about their current AI assistant and what they aim to 
achieve with this acquisition?
The client's internally developed AI assistant is underperforming, and they want to integrate a 
superior AI assistant from the target AI enterprise into their diverse ecosystem, which includes 
laptops, phones, and other devices. The AI enterprise is valued at $500 million.
Okay, so I would have to look into both the financial and non-financial aspects of this acquisition. 
Let’s start with the financial feasibility. Can you provide information on the revenue and 
profitability of the AI enterprise?
The AI enterprise acquisition has an annual revenue increase projected at $1B, with other AI 
tools like text-to-image and text-to-video generation also contributing significantly. Consider EBIT 
margin is 25%, and the effective tax rate is 20%.
Understood. I would calculate the net cash flows to determine the NPV and ROI. Moving on, we 
should also consider synergies. What are the expected synergies from this acquisition?
The client expects both operational and financial synergies. Operationally, integrating the superior 
AI assistant will enhance their product offerings. Financially, there are potential cost savings from 
economies of scale and increased revenue from improved AI capabilities. Additionally, the 
improved AI features on the already market-leading tech ecosystem would further solidify the 
client’s market position, creating a stronger lock-in effect for customers.
That makes sense. We also need to identify any dependencies and risks. Could you elaborate on 
any operational dependencies or risks associated with this acquisition?
The AI enterprise relies on cloud computing from multiple providers, which is a significant 
operational dependency. Additionally, there are privacy concerns as user data from the client’s 
devices will be exposed to the AI enterprise's servers. This could be mitigated by obtaining user 
permission each time data is sent. Based on the positive NPV of $208.15M and a high ROI of 181%, I recommend proceeding with 
the acquisition. The client should focus on leveraging synergies by integrating the AI enterprise’s 
superior AI assistant into their ecosystem. This will not only enhance their product offerings but 
also strengthen their market position by creating a stronger lock-in effect for customers. The 
improved AI capabilities will drive customer satisfaction and retention, further solidifying the 
client’s market leadership. Additionally, implementing robust privacy measures and ensuring 
compliance with data privacy regulations will mitigate any risks associated with data exposure. 
Addressing technological dependencies and preparing for competitive responses will also be 
crucial to the acquisition's success.
Thank you. That concludes the interview.
M&A | Consumer Tech | Challenging
2024-2025 Page 172

===== PAGE 173 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Recommendations
• Acquire the AI enterprise as the acquisition aligns well with the client’s long-term strategy to enhance AI capabilities and maintain a competitive edge in the consumer electronics market.   
• The financial model projects an extremely high ROI and NPV of $208.15M, justifying the acquisition cost of $500M with additional costs of $50M for integration and privacy compliance.
• For the short term, develop a detailed integration plan to seamlessly incorporate the AI enterprise's technology into the client's ecosystem for minimal disruption and maximum efficiency.
• For the long term, extensive training programs for employees on the new AI assistant’s framework should be conducted and strategies to negate competitor responses should be formulated.
Key Learnings
• Clearly defining the objective of the acquisition is crucial for aligning the strategic goals and ensuring focused efforts towards achieving them.
• Thorough financial analysis, including NPV and ROI calculations, is essential for assessing the feasibility and potential profitability of the acquisition.
• Identifying and realizing industry-specific synergies between the acquiring and target companies can significantly enhance value creation post-acquisition.
Your client, a global consumer electronics giant with a diverse ecosystem including laptops and phones, is facing challenges with their underperforming AI 
assistant. They are considering acquiring an AI enterprise with a superior AI assistant, valued at $500 million. The client wants your input to value the 
acquisition and determine if it should go ahead with it. 
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• It is important to understand 
how and why the client plans 
to improve their AI assistant 
through the acquisition
• Begin by understanding the 
scale and scope of operations 
for both the client (a global 
consumer electronics giant) 
and the target company (an 
AI enterprise)
• Examine the client’s existing 
business model, current user 
base, and the integration 
potential for the new AI 
assistant.
• Focus primarily on financial 
feasibility, synergies and value 
addition, operational 
dependencies, and risks.
• Ensure that incremental cash 
flows account for potential 
loss of cash flows due to 
shifts in operational focus or 
integration challenges.
Case Facts
• The AI enterprise uses 
cloud computing from 
multiple providers on a 
payment basis and is valued 
at $500M. Offers other AI 
tools, such as text-to-image 
and text-to-video 
generation.
• EBIT of 25%, Effective tax 
rate of 20%
• Discount Rate: assume 10%
• Internal AI Assistant:
▪ Current revenue 
contribution: $300M/year
▪ Growth rate: 2%
• After Acquisition:
▪ Potential Revenue increase 
for each year: $1B
• Challenges: 
▪ Privacy concerns with user 
data exposure to AI 
enterprise servers
▪ Initial Integration & privacy 
compliance costs: $50M
▪ Tool Relevance: 5 years
AI Enterprise Acquisition for Ecosystem Integration
Acquisition Criteria
Financial Feasibility
Valuation: 
$500M
Revenue and 
Profitability
Revenue 
Streams
AI 
Assistant
Text-to-
Image 
Tools
Text-to-
Video 
Tools
Growth 
Projections
Current 
Profitability
Expected Growth Rate
Current tool revenue 
growth rate (2%)
Internal AI assistant revenue 
($300M)
Increase in revenue from 
new assistant ($1B)
Financial Metrics:
NPV
Projected CF
ROI 
Synergies and Value Add
Integration With 
Existing Products
Cross-selling 
opportunities
Alignment with 
long-term user 
retention goals
Dependencies
Operational 
Dependencies
Cloud 
Transition
Competitive 
Landscape
Risks
Market 
Acceptance
Data Privacy 
Compliance
Compatibility 
Issues
User 
Permission 
Protocols
NPV = t=1-5∑ ((Net Cash Flow(t))/(1+Discount Rate)t) - Init. Investment & Costs = 758.15M – 550M = 208.15M
ROI = (Net Profit / (Init. Investment & Costs ))×100 = ((1B*(25%)*(1-20%)) / (500M+50M)) = 181.8%
M&A | Consumer Tech | Challenging
Click here for 
Panorama Report!
2024-2025 Page 173

===== PAGE 174 =====

Unconventional 
cases


===== PAGE 175 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Easy wins
• Breakdown into a mathematical formula
• Always remember Demand and Supply
• Any problem can have an internal cause (in control of company) or external cause. For external cause, use PESTEL to analyze possible 
issues
Unconventional - Tips & Tricks
Pointers to Remember
• Never try to force fit a framework
• Understand the problem really really well
• Ask the interviewer if you’re unfamiliar with a particular industry, do not hesitate to ask questions
• If the industry is familiar, comparisons with companies you know about would help in providing recommendations
• Be as comprehensive as possible and hence bucketing the problems into different sections will help in structured thinking
• Can be looked at through 2 lenses – qualitative & quantitative (as a mathematical problem)
• Using the 3CP i.e., of Company, Customer, Competitor and Product approach works in certain cases, but focus on keeping the approach 
MECE
• In certain cases when the scope of the cases is broad, the interviewee should ask if the focus needs to be on a specific aspect to structure 
thoughts in that direction
• While scoping the problem, the interviewee can consider if there are competitors in the same industry and the strategies, they follow
2024-2025 Page 175

===== PAGE 176 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
You can go ahead with the ad model assumption. However, X doesn’t have any merchandising rights
for GOT. What information do you need from me to calculate X’s revenues?
I would need the following: (i) X’s monthly Subscription fee (ii) No. of episodes in GOT S8
(iii) GOT viewers not currently on X (iv) Average ad rate per slot per episode (v) No. of slots
auctioned per episode
Glad that you asked. I have the following data sheet with me. This should help you calculate revenues
for X (Data sheet provided in table I).
Thank you. From my calculations, X’s revenue from Subscriptions and Advertisements comes out to
be $6 Mn (table II). However, I think there are some synergistic benefits to adding GOT on our
platform. These can be attributed to following factors:
• Customer Stickiness: Some of the additional customers would stick around after GOT ends
increasing their CLV for X. These benefits need to be added to our revenue calculations
• Additional ad revenues for existing programmes: X can leverage its added user base to charge a
premium for ad slots in its existing shows during GOT‘s 3-month on-air run-time
These are some very good points, and you can assume an additional benefit of $1 Mn from Synergy.
Can you please now list down the cost heads for X?
I have divided X’s costs into two buckets (Framework 1):
• Direct Costs: This header would include the Bid amount, Streaming costs, Marketing costs
• Overheads: This would include incremental legal costs, regulatory costs, customer service costs
Apart from this, there would be Costs of capital (which would include costs of financing the
investment and opportunity costs of not putting the money elsewhere).
Assume that X expects to incur additional costs of $1 Mn apart from the bid amount. X has expected
an ROI of 20% to incorporate for the cost of capital.
Oh, I think I have all the data now. Based on my calculations, the bid amount for GOT season 8 cannot
exceed $5 Mn to get the desired ROI of 20%.
Now, I’d like to focus on the Strategic feasibility. Adding GOT would affect the way subscribers
interact with the platform. Given the adult nature of content, some of the family-centric subscribers
might get dissuaded from continuing. Also, this would affect our tie-ups with existing content
providers which infer HBO as their competitor or substitute.
These points are valid, but we can safely assume that X is strategically aligned with getting HBO
onboard. Can you please now identify three potential risks that X needs to be aware of?
Sure. I have collated the risks into the following categories:
• Customer centric: X might not attract enough new customers on the platform given the
subscription price and the presence of alternate channels of piracy like torrents, illegal streaming
• Content centric: The content is not up to the mark increasing mid-season customer and
advertiser drop-outs. Given the explicit content, X could also face added regulatory pressures
• Platform centric: Focus on GOT might lead to self-cannibalization with decreased viewership for
the platform’s existing content. Plus, X needs to minimize platform glitches that could inhibit user
watching experience, leaving the new viewers unsatisfied with the platform
I think we can stop here. Thank you.
Bid Strategy for GOT Season 8 – Interview Transcript
Unconventional | Entertainment | Bid strategy | Challenging
Your client is Company X. They have been approached by HBO to bid for the eighth season of
GOT. They want your help to evaluate the opportunity and determine the correct bidding strategy.
I would like to ask a few clarifying questions to get an understanding about the case. Could you
please elaborate on X’s business model and current product offerings?
X is an OTT platform operating in India. The company has a website and an app where customers
can access media content by paying a monthly subscription fee. X has its own content as well as tie-
ups with other providers to provide a curated list of Movies, TV Shows, News Channels and
Sporting Events on its platform for its subscribers.
What is X’s objective for this bid? Is it to increase user base, or revenues or profits? And what
makes GOT so attractive for X?
X wants to maximise their profits and this bid should account for that. As for GOT, it is the most
watched English TV Series in India.
I would like to now understand the bidding terms. Will this bid be for the eighth season only? Also,
will X have exclusive rights for this and till when is the bid valid?
The bid will be for exclusive rights to stream GOT’s eighth and final season, and valid only for the
duration that the show is on-air.
Has X bid previously for GOT and if so, do we have any information regarding the bidding process?
Also, is it okay to assume that the offer has been made to X’s competitors as well?
It’s a closed bidding process that HBO extends to X and its four other competitors. The client had
bid for GOT’s seventh season but did not win the bid. They were informed that they were close
second and had bid $3 Mn for Season 7.
Finally, a quick question about the competitors. Who are the major competitors in the Indian
market and How does X differentiate itself from them?
As mentioned earlier, there are four other competitors, but for the purposes of the case, focus
only on X. Enough discussion! I would like for you to now come up with a bidding strategy.
Sure. I would like look at this problem with a three-pronged approach (Framework 1):
• Financial feasibility: Revenue and Cost calculations to get an upper cap on the bid amount
• Strategic viability: How this investment aligns with X’s other stakeholders
• Risks: Any potential risks that need to be considered before engaging in the process
Good! Let’s begin with financial feasibility. What would be the major Revenue heads for X?
There would be three major revenue streams for X (Framework 1):
• Subscriptions: Incremental Subscription Revenues due to season 8 being shown exclusively on
X’s platform
• Advertisements: Revenues from auctioning advertisement slots during episode screening. Here,
I am assuming an ad model akin to a TV network’s ad model. Does it sound fair to you?
• Other Sources: Additional Revenues from sources such as merchandising, brand tie-ups, etc.
2024-2025 Page 176

===== PAGE 177 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Approach/ Framework Interviewee Notes
• Understand X’s business
model and offerings
• Enquire about X’s
objective and how the bid
decision is fulfilling it
• Come up with a strategic
plan using Market Entry
framework
• Identify major sources of
revenue and ask for
relevant case information
to do financial analysis
• Incorporate synergies and
opportunity costs in
feasibility calculations
• Check strategic alignment
with other stakeholders
• Evaluate the risks involved
in the bidding process
Table 1
Noteworthy points
• Asked probing preliminary questions to scope
out the issue and identified client’s objectives
• Correctly identified the revenue streams and
cost headers for an OTT platform
• Proposed bid strategy was concurrent with the
client’s objectives
• Covered major risks associated with this move
Your client is X. They have been approached by HBO to bid for the eighth season of GOT. They want your help to evaluate the opportunity
and determine the correct bidding strategy.
Strategic Viability
• Effect on existing subscriber
• Effects on content providers 
on the platforms
• Operational feasibility
• Low adoption and piracy
• Quality and regulations
• Cannibalization and 
platform issues
Financial Feasibility Risks
Bid Strategy for GOT Season 8– Interview Transcript
Costs
Direct 
Costs
Legal Costs
Overheads
Bid Costs
Operational 
Costs
Marketing 
Costs
Regulatory 
Costs
Customer 
service Cost
Revenue
Subscription
No. of 
episodes
Ad Revenue
Monthly Fee
Months of 
air-time
Incremental 
subscribers
Ad slots open 
per episode
Average Ad 
bid per slot
Synergies
Customer 
stickiness
Increased ad 
traffic
• Compute cash flows
• Compute bid amount 
incorporating opportunity 
cost and cost of financing 
Case facts Values
Monthly subscriber 
fee
$2
GOT Running time 3 months
Total GOT fan base 1.25 Mn
Current GOT fan 
base on X’s platform
0.5 Mn
Mkt share captured 
(for GOT season 8)
80%
GOT episodes in S8 10
Ad time per episode 10 min
Average ad duration 30 sec
Average ad bid value $15 K
Synergistic revenues $1 Mn
Direct Costs $0.8 Mn
Overheads $0.2 Mn
Cost of capital 20%
Table 2
Revenue
Subscription mode
Increased 
subscribers 0.5 Mn
Monthly fee $2
Subscription months 3
Revenue generated $3 Mn
Calculations
Ad Revenue
No. of episodes 10
Ad Slots per ep 20
Average ad bid 
value $15 K
Revenue generated $3 Mn
Points of improvement
• Made inferences about ad revenue streams 
without confirming with the interviewer
• Did not analyse current bid strategy with the 
last year’s one to do a feasibility check
• Piracy and regulatory issues could have come 
up earlier in the case while estimating revenue 
and cost headers
Key Learnings
Unconventional | Entertainment | Bid strategy | Challenging
Click here for 
Panorama Report!
2024-2025 Page 177

===== PAGE 178 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a packaging manufacturer who has been facing a higher completion time of
delivering a job. Diagnose and recommend solutions.
I would like to begin with a few clarifying questions on our client. I’ll like to know what
exactly constitutes the completion time for a job.
The completion time is the time taken from receiving the raw material to completion of the
entire manufacturing process.
Alright. I am not very familiar with the packaging industry. Could you please elaborate on
the process followed by them and whether this problem is only being faced by our client.
You can consider it to be similar to any other manufacturing industry. It basically
manufactures carton boxes used in packaging of various products. There are different
processes to be followed sequentially involving different machines based on the nature of
job. Also, the problem is being faced only by our client.
Okay. I would also like to know how many manufacturing facilities we have and whether
the problem is limited to any particular plant/facility.
Good question. The client has three manufacturing locations across India. However, the
problem is only being faced at one of the locations.
Just a final question, you mentioned that different processes are followed for different
jobs. Could you tell me what are the different type of jobs being processed and whether
this problem is specific to any particular type of job.
We usually classify the jobs based on the no of cartons to be produced in a job. It is
classified as small or large based on whether the cartons exceed 5000 or not. Also, we
have the following data on the target vs actual completion time : (Small Target: 36 hrs,
Actual: 72 hrs; Large Target: 48 hrs, Actual 54 hrs)
Looking from the data, it seems that the problem is primarily in the small jobs, and I would
like to analyse this in more detail. Would that be okay?
Yes, you can go ahead.
I’d like to start by identifying the different components of completion time and looking
where the problem lies. The completion time would consist of actual manufacturing time
and the idle time. So, do we have any information if the difference between actual and
target is specifically in any one of them?
No, we have actually exceeded the target time in both of them.
Alright, in that case, I would like to start with the manufacturing time. This would be
dependent on the number of processes involved, run speed of different machines
involved and the average order quantity for the job. Have we seen increase in any of
these?
You can assume that the average order quantity is same, and the number of processes
involved is also the same. However, we have observed that the run speed of machines
have reduced, and this has happened across machines.
Okay. So, this could be because the machine has some problem because of it the
operators are not able to run it at the desired speed. However, this would affect the large
jobs as well and considering the increase is not the same in both, there must be other
factors also contributing to this increase. Operators’ skill level can be issue but that would
again affect the large jobs as well.
Yes, actually that is correct. The small jobs being received in the recent past have become
more complex and the operators have found quality issues while running it at higher speed.
This has forced them to run at less speed.
Ok. So this explains the increase in manufacturing time for these jobs. Now I would like to
analyse the reason behind the increase in idle time for these jobs. The idle time would
consist of idle time per machine and idle time between machines. The idle time per machine
would consist of the make ready time, and breakdown time. The idle time between
machines would be due to unavailability of the subsequent machine or prioritization of some
other jobs.
That’s correct. We have seen that there has been an increase in the make ready time for
these jobs as well as increase in idle time between machines. Can you identify the possible
reasons for the same?
As you mentioned earlier that the jobs being received in the recent past have become more
complex, this could be the reason for increase in the make ready time as operators are not
able to do it quickly. For the idle time between machines, it could be a lack of planning and
scheduling that leads to unavailability of the subsequent machine or clash of priority at the
plan level.
Yes, that is correct. What we have observed is that there is no clash of priority in from
demand side, but the line managers are seen to be prioritizing the large jobs. Why do you
think the line manger would be interested in prioritizing large jobs over the small jobs?
I think the main KPI for line manager would be the daily output in terms of no of cartons
produced and the efficiency. As you mentioned that these small jobs run at a lower speed,
the line manager maybe prioritizing the large jobs to meet his/her target and delay the small
job intentionally.
Great. So can you suggest some recommendations to prevent this problem in the future.
I’d like to give the following recommendations:
1. For increased manufacturing time: The operators should be given adequate training so
that they are able to run these jobs at specified speed without any quality defect. The
plant can also take the help of other plants and see if similar type of jobs are run there
and what processes have been followed by them.
2. For increased idle time: The make ready time can be reduced by improving the skill
level of employees as mentioned earlier. An increased supervision can also help in
bringing down the make ready time. For the planning and prioritization problem, the
incentive and targets for the line manager can be based on the number of jobs
completed (for each category) instead of the output in terms of cartons. The planning
can be improved by forecasting the time taken at each of the machines and planning
accordingly.
Do you want me to analyse anything else?
This will be fine. Thank you.
Unconventional | Packaging | Moderate
Increased processing time – Interview transcript
2024-2025 Page 178

===== PAGE 179 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a packaging manufacturer who has been facing a higher completion time of delivering a job. Diagnose and recommend solutions.
Approach/ Framework
Recommendations:
• Provide training to operators
• Change the incentive scheme/daily target for line managers
• Proper forecasting of the time taken at a particular machine to improve planning accuracy
Key Learnings:
• Ask the interviewer if you’re unfamiliar with a particular industry, do not hesitate
• There could be multiple factors/issues leading to the problem identified, so always cover all options
Interviewee Notes
• Understand the 
components of the 
completion time 
• Identify the time taken in 
each of these components 
against the target time
• Identify the underlying 
reasons for these 
increased time
Case Facts
• Problem only in one of the 
manufacturing plants
• Problem not being faced by 
other competitors in the same 
area
• Completion time defined as time 
taken from receiving  the raw 
material to completion of the 
entire manufacturing process.
Idle time 
per 
machine
Make-
ready time
Manufacturing 
Time
Completion Time
Idle Time
Inter 
machine 
idle time
Break-
down time
No of 
processesRun speed
Average 
order 
quantity
Type of job Target Time 
(hrs) Actual Time (hrs)
Large 
(more than 5000 
cartons)
48 54
Small 
(less than 5000 cartons) 36 72
Labour 
issue
Job 
Complexity
Machine 
Issue
Priority 
issues
Unavailability of 
subsequent 
machine
Increased processing time
Page 1792024-2025
Unconventional | Packaging | Moderate

===== PAGE 180 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad 2024-2025
Your Client is the TT Association of India. They have set a target to win an Olympic Gold in the
2025 Olympics. They have brought you on board to help them chart out a path to achieve this
target.
I would first want to know more about the TT Association of India, its structure, and its
responsibility in selecting participants for representing India in the Olympics.
Assume the operations to be very similar to the BCCI. It is the central body for table tennis and
has state boards. Any state or national TT games are controlled by the association and have the
responsibility for international representation of TT at various sporting events.
Ah, that is interesting! Just in continuation to this, is it safe to assume that the board gets its funds
from the govt and some sponsorships?
Yeah, that is a fair assumption. Just that the funding level is much lesser than BCCI, and you can
assume that the sponsorship is negligible.
Understood. Next, I would like to gain some more clarity on the target. For that, could you
please help me with the current standing of the Indian team, the competitors, and if there is any
specific category which I should focus on, or if we are talking about all the men/women singles
and doubles.
Nice. So, we are only focusing on the women’s category for both singles/doubles. We generally
get eliminated before the semi-finals, and the main competitors are China, the USA, New
Zealand, and South Korea.
That is quite useful. One last question before I move forward with structuring. What timeline are
we in? Since the Olympics is in 2025, do I need to lay down a plan for four years, or is there
something else?
Well, yes, assume that the year is 2021 itself, and you have to lay forward a plan for four years.
Got it. I guess I have a basic sense of the problem statement and request a min to structure my
thoughts.
Sure.
To plan for the next four years, I would start by breaking the problem along three axes:
1. Identification of right talent
2. Training
3. Performance at the Olympics.
I will start with the scouting process. Does the structure seem fair to you?
Well, yes, please continue.
Right, so could you let me know how the scouting mechanism works currently. I hypothesize that
there will be district competition followed by the state and then the nationals. Do we have any
data on the frequency of any such competitions and the number of players from each selection?
The mechanism is exactly as you mentioned. The frequency is yearly once, and the problem here
is that we do not get sufficient girls who play TT.
Oh, that is where I was getting at. Thank you for the information. So, I will first focus on the no of
players and then see if the frequency of selection can impact the quality of selection. Does this
make sense?
Yes, it does. You can assume that we cannot really change the frequency for simplicity. Why
don’t you only focus on the number for now?
Noted. Now, to see why the female community's participation is low, I will further break it down 
into awareness, motivation, and capability.
1. Awareness – seeing if the parents or the students are sufficiently aware about the scope a 
game like TT has and if the competitions are adequately publicized.
TT Association of India – Interview Transcript
Unconventional | Sports | Easy
Page 180
2. Motivation – Do the families know about the sport and the potential to grow both personally 
and professionally. Try to understand why and why not they will be willing to dedicate time and 
energy to this game.
3. Capability – To see that the girls who have the awareness and motivation for the sport can 
get the required training or infrastructure to play.
Does this seem fair to you, and is there any specific bucket you want me to dig deeper into?
Yes, it does seem fairly exhaustive. Why don’t you focus on the awareness part and give
recommendations on increasing it?
Sure. The most effective way is to target school kids and teachers in both government and private
schools. We ask the state-level organizers of the TT association to tie up and visit schools, talking
about the previous success in this field and talking about the benefits of the game. Pamphlets also
need to be distributed so that kids can go through the whole idea post the visit by the
association’s people. A few advertisements in the local channels about the upcoming games also
would help stimulate interest. The latter would be contingent on the budget we have and needs
to be allocated to states where the expected conversion is the highest.
Ok, let us move to the training part now. Assume that the team has been selected, and we now
need to focus on the training aspect so that the team becomes capable of winning the gold
medal.
Right, so the training can be broken down into skills and infrastructure.
The skills can be broken down into physical skills, technical skills, and mental skills.
1. Physical skills are the fitness part. That can be further broken down into the diet and
workout routine. For diet, each player has special requirements, and a nutritionist to focus on
their intake will help build a healthy body. A fitness coach helping each of them stay fit.
2. Technical skills will be agility, speed, and hand-eye movement. This will need a proper coach
to teach the tricks, help India’s best players with their weak areas, and also mastering their
strengths.
3. Mental skills are their ability to cope with stress, and a professional psychiatrist to motivate
them weekly would be helpful.
Infrastructure would ensure that players have a dedicated sports complex to practice which
imitates the international standards. Also, the gym and fitness be covered in this. Is there anything
else that you want me to cover in this bucket before I move forward?
No, I guess you can move forward.
Moving to the on-the-day performance. I see that we fail to reach the finals, and there are four
major competitors. I believe that each country/player has a very different strategy of playing a
game. Some are offensive, and some are defensive. Before each game, studying the player's
strategy with which the match is scheduled and accordingly devising the game strategy would
help. We can also have an advantage here as the competitors would be underestimating us and
might now come that prepared.
Having a professional person to keep them motivated during the game would also help with the
mental game pressure. Is there anything else you would want me to cover?
Well, I guess you have quite comprehensively covered all the aspects of the plan. The case's main
aim was not any right answer, as you can see. It was more meant to send you down the
exploration path. My main idea was to see how you break down an abstract problem and make
some sense out of it. We could close the case now.

===== PAGE 181 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is the TT Association of India. They have set a target to win an Olympic Gold in the 2025 Olympics. They have brought you on
board to help them chart out a path to achieve this target.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Clarify the time frame
• Clarify the role and 
responsibilities of the TT 
Association of India
• Narrow down the scope 
by the type of events in 
focus for Olympics 2025
• Establish current standing 
in the Olympics
Case Facts
• Client is the central body 
for TT and has state 
boards
• Responsible for state and 
national level games, 
international 
representation
• Funding level very less 
compared to BCCI, 
negligible sponsorship
2024-2025
TT Association of India
Recommendations
• Awareness: target school kids and teachers in both government and private schools; pamphlets distributed; advertisements in l ocal channels
• Performance at the Olympics: professional person to keep the team motivated; study strategies of competitors before matches
• Sponsorship/Funding
Observations / Suggestions
• Such cases are meant to test the first principles and the creativity of the interviewee. So, the interviewee should not be afraid of deriving real life examples and personal experiences
• Another strategy that helps in such cases is conversing with the interviewer about what his/her views are
• The final motive of this case was not to derive suggestions, rather it was to judge the capability to structure and objective ly touch every point of development, staying MECE
Page 181
Identification of Right 
Talent Training Performance at the 
Olympics
No. of Selection 
Events
No. of Players 
Selected
Awareness Motivation Capability
Infrastructure
Skills
Physical Skills Technical Skills Mental Skills
Study Competitor 
Strategies
Adopt Relevant 
Game Plan
Unconventional | Sports | Easy

===== PAGE 182 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Steel Manufacturing Firm – Interview Transcript
Unconventional | Manufacturing | Steel | Easy
Our client is in the steel industry. He provides a particular raw material to the steel plants.
Recently his son, who is a tech enthusiast, wants to sell this business and start another
venture where more modern technologies are used. What would you recommend to our
client?
I would like to understand the scenario a bit better. When we talk about raw materials,
are we referring to some specific product?
So, it is a form dust that is present in mines which our client rents out on a contract basis.
It is a readily available product and there are over 50 players in the region who do the
same. The product has no differentiation in any aspect.
Got it. I would like to understand the business of the client further. Does our client only
collect and transport the dust or is there any process involved before we handle it over to
the client?
Yes, our client processes it in their small factory where the dust is converted to pellets
which is then transported to the steel plants.
You mentioned it is a small factory, how many potential customers does our client have?
There are around 10 steel plants to which we cater to.
What is the market share of the client in this region?
There are 20 steel pants present in this region.
That means we don’t have much bargaining power as suppliers.
Yes, that’s a great insight. How do you want to proceed further?
Now that I have good understanding of the client’s business. I would want to know further
about the venture of the client’s son. Why is our client’s son stressing on changing the
business line? Also, what does he mean by modern technologies, and does he have any
business already in mind?
He feels that the modern industries are using technologies such as big data, ML, AI, etc
which help generate higher profits as compared to the current industry his father is in. He
doesn’t have any specific vertical in mind. He is just fascinated by all the modern
technologies.
Got it. Is it safe to say that he is more interested in the application of technology be it any
industry?
Yes correct.
That gives a fair idea about the owner’s dilemma and objective. I would like to break my
approach into three parts:
1. I would like to evaluate our current business and see if there’s any scope for
improvement in our performance by the application of all modern industrial
technologies
2. I would like to evaluate the valuation of the firm and chalk out potential buyers
3. Lastly, I would like to analyze industries which are dominated by modern technologies
and check which ones we can enter
That seems like a good approach. For now, you can ignore the second and third part and
only focus on the first one.
Also is all of this done by the client themselves or any third-party involvement exists?
So, I will look at each part, identify relevant cost measures and try to identify operational
efficiency parameters and check if modern technologies can help improving these
parameters.
Give me one example.
Sure. So, for transportation part, I will identify different cost headers such as fuel cost and
labor cost, break it down into an equation and analyze further (interrupted by
interviewer).
Can you write the equation?
Sure sir. I would start by calculating the total cost and I would then breakup each of the
individual components.
Total transportation costs = No. of truck trips * Cost per trip per truck
No. of truck trips = Quantity to be transported / (% Utilization of truck capacity *
Capacity of truck)
Cost per truck can further be broken down into fuel cost and other costs
Fuel cost can be written as distance times fuel cost per km
This is very detailed. How do you want to proceed?
I want to analyse how modern technologies can improve each of these factors. For 
Example, if data can be leveraged to decrease the distance travelled. We can also check for 
optimization of the capacity utilization per truck. Do you want me to focus on any aspect?
No, I get your approach. It is quite detailed. Can you tell me few risks he possesses
because of his suppliers (mining companies) and his customers (steel industry)?
Sure. Because this firm has little differentiation, I believe any backward integration by steel
firms or forward integration by mining firms can be a threat to them.
How can he create the differentiation then?
Product differentiation is not possible. Service differentiation can be done.
Great. That'll be all.
Sure. So, the supply chain of our client would generally involve:
Getting orders from our clients → Collecting dust → Transporting it to the factory →
Processes involved inside the factory → Transporting it to the warehouse → Transporting
it to steel industries → Collecting payment and customer management
Do you think I should modify the supply chain in any manner or focus on any part?
This supply chain looks detailed enough.
Also is all of this done by the client themselves or any third-party involvement exists?
Sure sir. I would start by analyzing the business operations of the firm. Here, I will divide it
into core & non-core operations and evaluate each step of the value chain to check
possibilities for tech integration which will help increase revenues or decrease costs.
Would you want me to focus on any part specifically?
You can start with the core part first.
Page 1822024-2025

===== PAGE 183 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Interviewee Notes
• The new venture the client
wishes to start would
involve usage of modern
technologies
• Client interested in
application of modern
technologies in any industry
Case Facts
• Client is in the steel
industry
• There is no product
differentiation
• Client is interest in the
application of modern
technologies without
preference to any
industries
• Client commands 50%
market share
Recommendations
• The client should explore usage of modern technologies for cost optimization in the current business
Observations / Suggestions
• The candidate has done a good job clarifying about the current business and the motivations of the client’s son before proceeding with the analysis
• Laying down the value chain instead of directly asking the interviewer adds brownie points
• The candidate could have explored leveraging modern technology to increase revenue
Your client is in the steel industry. He is considering to sell off his business and start a new venture.
Unconventional | Manufacturing | Steel | Easy
Steel Manufacturing Firm
Approach / Framework
Sale of business?
Industries 
dominated by 
modern tech
Evaluation of 
current business
Valuation of the 
firm and 
potential buyers
Non core
Operations
Core 
Operations
Transportation 
costs
Quantity to be 
transported
1
(% 𝑜𝑓 capacity 𝑢𝑡𝑖𝑖𝑧𝑒𝑑 ∗ 𝑐𝑎𝑝𝑎𝑐𝑖𝑡𝑦 𝑜𝑓 𝑡𝑟𝑢𝑐𝑘)
Cost per trip 
per truck= x x
Value Chain
Orders Collecting dust Transportation Processing
TransportationPaymentCustomer Management
Page 1832024-2025

===== PAGE 184 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Pharmaceutical Company – Interview Transcript
BCG | Unconventional | Pharma Sector | Moderate | Partner Case
This is considerably lower than the previous estimates. Which number is hurting the profitability
the most?
The probability of success of the very first trial is very low. This has cascading effect on all further
scenarios. It would be fair to say that this number is hurting the overall profitability the most.
Give me a minute…
I just got a call from one of the competitors who wishes to buy the molecule at $5 million. But
they need an answer right now in a minute. They are on the other side of the phone and are
asking if we are in or out.
$5 million is double the expected return. And the drug will succeed in trials with a bleak
probability of just 1.2%.
In or out? 20 seconds left.
In. I recommend to seal the deal.
Yes, fairly done. Any regrets now?
None, the molecule was very different from the current portfolio. Current brand equity would
not help in sales. Marketing efforts would have to be done from scratch. That will also amount to
some costs.
This molecule would be sold OTC and the existing drugs are prescription based. Establishing a
different distribution channel would need more expenditure.
Additionally, we did not consider the probability of the product not catching up even after passing
through all the three phases of trial. Factoring all this, I think we had a good deal.
Your client is a pharmaceutical company planning to divest one of its molecules. They have
approached you to help with the valuation.
Sure, thanks. I would like to know if I got the problem right. Our client is a pharmaceutical
company, planning to sell a molecule’s patent to another entity and needs our help with the
valuation of that molecule.
Yes, that’s correct.
What is our client’s objective? Is it to maximize profit or to maximize the reach of the molecule?
They want to get the maximum economic worth for the patent they have developed after
spending substantially on R&D.
How far is the client in terms of R&D on the molecule? Are they currently selling this drug?
Additionally, I understand that this molecule is just one of their inventions. Are they commercially
selling other drugs?
They have created a pill but have not started selling it yet. Yes, they are selling other drugs
successfully for more than a decade now.
What is the therapeutic area for the said molecule and what is the therapeutic area that the client
generally deals in?
How would that matter?
If the products in portfolio are related, there are positive or negative spillover effects. Example:
Adding a complementary product increases the sales of an existing product. Divesting can have
the opposite effect.
Makes sense. Continuous use of this pill cures baldness. The client generally sells medicines for
diabetes and cardiac issues. As you can guess, they can’t foresee any positive impact on the sale
of current portfolio if this pill is launched or any negative impact of this divestment.
The pill would be sold Over-the-Counter (OTC) but the already existing portfolio of drugs needs
prescription. So, distribution also differs. So, we can ignore the spillover effect and evaluate the
valuation of just this molecule in isolation. The patent is for how many years?
5 years. Why do you think that matters?
If the client keeps the patent, it can sell the pill monopolistically for the next 5 years. Hence, to
perform valuation on the molecule, we need to estimate the present value of future profits for
the next 5 years from the sale of this pill.
You are right, so what other information would you need to value by this approach?
We would want to find the present value of profits over the next five years. Since profit is a
function of revenue and cost, we need estimates on both.
Revenue = estimated sales*price.
Here, estimated sales = Number of customers*recommended frequency*Average duration
Costs = fixed cost + variable costs.
What do you mean by average duration?
We can categorize the drug as a cosmetic drug. So, customers would use them for different
durations. Some might drop very soon while others might continue to use it. So, we need a
weighted average to take that into account.
The client has done market sizing and ascertained that it will convert 100,000 customers over the
next five years. Average frequency of use is twice a week or 8 times a month. Average duration
of use is a year. One pill can be sold for $100 . You can ignore the time value of money.
Okay, so the number of pills to be sold over the next 5 years are 100,000*8*12= 9,600,000 pills.
The revenue will be 9,600,000*$100= $960,000,000 i.e., $960 million. Do we know the cost
figures too?
Yes, the cost of producing one pill is $40. This includes both fixed and variable cost.
The total profit comes out to be 960,000,000- 40*9,600,000=$576,000,000 i.e., $576 million
Wouldn’t you consider R&D cost?
No, that is sunk cost. That can’t be saved even if we sell the patent now.
Right, but are we sure that the client would earn $576 million? Do you see any risks?
In which country is the client aiming to sell this pill. And do they need trials?
The client is US based. And FDA stipulates extensive trials.
Has the client completed trials?
No, they are yet to begin with their trials.
Then, there is a possibility that the molecule might not succeed in trials and fetch zero return.
What more data do you need in that case?
I would need to know the following:
1) The number of phases of trials
2) Cost of each phase
3) The probability of success of each phase
There are three phases. The first trial costs $4 million and there is a 10% probability of success.
The second trial will cost $3 million and it will be successful with a probability of 30%. The third
and last phase would cost $2 million and its success has a probability of 40%. These probabilities
are independent of the previous phase of trial.
Following cases are possible:
1) The trial can fail at 1st phase with 90% probability
2) The trial can be successful at 1st phase and fail at 2nd phase with 0.1*0.7= 7% probability
3) The trial can fail at 3rd phase with 0.1*0.3*0.6=1.8% probability
4) The trial can finally be successful at all stages with 0.1*0.3*0.4= 1.2% probability.
So, what is the final expected profit
It would be 0.9*(-4) + 0.07*(-7) + 0.018*(-9) + 0.012*567=2.552 million= $2,552,000 [Table 1]
2024-2025 Page 184

===== PAGE 185 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Recommendations
• Since the deal was offering double of the expected returns, it was a good call to sell.
• Considering the overall product portfolio of the company, additional expenditure like marketing and distribution would bring the expected profit further down.
• It is a good practice to remember the industry throughout the interview. Trails are a peculiar characteristic of pharmaceutic al industry.
Key Learnings
• It is important to understand the objective of the client. The whole question could have taken a different turn had the objec tive been to make the pill available to maximum people.
• It is important to pay attention to the questions asked by the interviewer. They wanted to channel the interviewee towards th e right approach. In this case, it was the concept of trial of drugs.
• Understanding about the overall business of client is important before formulating any strategy, even if the problem statement is for a narrower business unit.
Your client is a pharmaceutical company planning to divest one of its molecules. They have approached you to help with the valuation.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• It is important to 
understand the objective 
of the client.
• Enquire about client 
profile.
• The molecule is a 
cosmetic drug sold OTC, 
different from current 
product portfolio.
• Valuation needs estimates 
of revenue and costs.
• Valuation needs to be 
done in isolation.
• The interviewer 
specifically asked the 
scenario in which client 
would not be able to earn 
the revenue arrived at by 
market sizing.
Case Facts
• Focus on maximum 
return for the 
company.
• The OTC sold pill is 
for baldness. The 
client deals in 
Diabetes and cardiac 
issues related 
medicines since a 
decade.
• Patent is for 5 years.
• Another deal 
available at $5 
million.
Profit
Costs Revenues
Estimated 
sales Price/pill
Estimated 
Customers
Purchase 
frequency
Pharmaceutical Company
Page 1852024-2025
Average 
duration of use
Fixed Cost Variable Cost
Scenario Probability Cost (in million) Profit (in million) Return (Profit- Cost)
Fail at 1st trial 0.9 4 0 -4
Fail at 2nd trial 0.1*0.7=0.07 4+3=7 0 -7
Fail at 3rd trial 0.1*0.3*0.6=0.018 4+3+2=9 0 -9
Successful at all stages 0.1*0.3*0.4=0.012 4+3+2=9 576 567
Return as per probability= 0.9*(-4) + 0.07*(-7) + 0.018*(-9) + 0.012*567=2.552 million= $2,552,000
Table 1: Estimation of profit after considering probability of trial success
BCG | Unconventional | Pharma Sector | Moderate | Partner Case
Click here for 
Panorama Report!

===== PAGE 186 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is planning to launch a new Airlines Company. The airline will differentiate itself by
being a ‘green’ airline. He has approached you, a consultant to help him suggest ways in making his
airline ‘green’.
So, if I understand correctly, the client wants to launch an airline which will focus on being ‘green’.
By being ‘green’, do we mean adopting and excelling in sustainable practices or is there some
other interpretation?
Yes, you are right. It means adopting sustainable practices.
Okay, could I know why the client wants to adopt this? What is his ultimate objective?
Well, the client feels that the world is increasingly becoming conscious about sustainability
practices. Being a ‘green’ airline, it will be able to capture a market of passengers even by selling
tickets at a relatively higher price.
Sure, I would want to understand a bit more about the company at this point. Will it be a low cost
or a full-service airline? Does it plan to operate in international markets or in India?
They will prefer to be a full-service airline. It will primarily be an Indian airlines, but it will have
international flights.
Could I understand a bit more about the current context? Have other players started with these
practices? Do we have any benchmark?
No, we would be the first in the industry. There is no benchmark.
Okay, so I feel that I have some idea about the problem. I would like to proceed analysing it by
first drawing out the value chain (Draws out). Do you want me to focus on any one? Or should I
start from sourcing?
Start wherever you want. You are the consultant.
Okay, so I feel that sourcing would be that of fuel and aircraft.
While I know that the suppliers are well established there are certain in-flight changes that can be
introduced to reduce the weight of the flight. For example, lighter carbon fibre seats can be
installed. Similarly, we could look at re-configuring the cabin crew or cockpit to reduce weight.
For fuel, we could look at a mix of biodiesel and normal fuel something which was tried by Spice
Jet.
Okay, what else?
That would cover sourcing. Next, I would like to come to planning operations. This would include
flight & crew scheduling, route selection etc. (refer value chain). The flights need to be planned
such that it minimizes fuel use. This would involve better scheduling, not flying flights at less than
capacity and reducing idle waiting time at the runway.
Okay. Could you think of a metric in this respect which would be useful?
Fuel/passenger. I think we should focus on reducing this.
Okay. Please continue with your initial analysis.
So, after planning, I would like to look at the pre-flight operations. This would involve ticket
counter operations, gate operations, baggage handling, and pre-flight bus service. We could look at
going paperless by removing paper tags and plastic zip locks and using e-boarding passes. We
could also look to use aerobridges to reduce fuel use in operating buses. We can substitute the
ground service equipment with electric powered instead of conventional diesel.
Interesting suggestions. Please continue with your analysis.
Next, I would look at in-flight operations. We could look at reducing paper and plastic on board by
cutting back or eliminating magazines and buying lighter beverage carts.
Also, since we are planning to be a full-service aircraft, in-flight meals could be served in
biodegradable containers.
Fair enough. What else?
After this, we would come to outbound logistics. Here again, we could use aero-bridges or electric
buses to transport passengers to terminals. Baggage can be transported from flights to collection
belts using electric/solar powered ground service equipment.
For major terminals (like metro cities), full-service airlines offer additional services like pick-up and
drop car rental. We could substitute that with pooled-car or shuttle bus services.
Do you think you have missed out any major factor in your overall analysis? What do you think a
major airline operator will need to have to sustain its operations?
I apologise, I had missed its corporate offices. An airline would have offices all over the country. We
could look at sustainable practices there. Use of solar energy, going paperless etc. to reduce our
overall carbon footprint.
We could also look at adopting green practices in reporting such as ESG reporting in our financials
and conducting green audits by specialized firms.
What will be some of the major challenges in the initiatives suggested by you?
First, the initial fixed cost would be higher. Purchasing electric or solar powered ground equipment
is not common in India so it would require special orders.
Second, since I suggested changing the configuration of the cabin and cockpit to reduce weight, these
might require regulatory approvals.
Third, many customers are not comfortable using e-boarding passes. There will be an additional cost
of educating passengers or we might lose out on sales.
Okay, Sounds good. Could you summarize the case for us?
Our client is looking to launch a new ‘green’ airline and needed suggestions to adopt sustainability
practices. After analysing the relevant functions in the value chain, we came up with areas where the
client could implement different techniques. It starts with green sourcing, better planning of flight
operations to reduce fuel/passenger, reducing the use of paper and tags in the pre-flight operations,
reducing the use of plastic in in-flight operations, reducing carbon footprint in the outbound logistics
and also incorporating sustainable practices in the corporate offices of the firm. This would help our
client go a long way in achieving his goal.
Okay. Thank you.
‘Go Green’ strategy – Interview Transcript
Unconventional | Aviation and Environment | Moderate
2024-2025 Page 186

===== PAGE 187 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is the CEO of an Indian Airlines Company. He has approached you, a consultant at a top notch firm to help him make his firm go
green. How do you go about it?
Approach/ Framework
Key Learnings:
• The interviewee should first clarify what “go green” means. Then he/she should understand more about the company and operations. Finally, the problem should be broken up into a value 
chain to simplify it.
• Give recommendations under each bucket in the value chain. Be exhaustive.
• If the industry is familiar, comparisons with companies you know about would help in providing recommendations.
Interviewee Notes
• Try to use the 4C 
structure (Company, 
competition, context 
and cost) to gain 
more information.
• Gauge the 
motivation, 
reasoning of the 
CEO for going 
green.
• Try to use a value 
chain to break up 
the entire problem 
into parts. 
Case Facts
• Client is an Indian 
Airlines Company
• It wants to “go green”
Sourcing Planning 
Operations
Pre-Flight 
operations
In -Flight 
operations
Outbound
Logistics
Marketing &
Sales
 Service
Aircraft
Fuel
Green Audits
Route Selection
Flight scheduling
Reduce fuel per 
passenger
Passenger yield 
management
Ticket Counter 
operations
Baggage 
Operations
Gate 
Operations
Bus & Airbridge
Administration
Food/Offering
Bio-Toilets
Flight Crew
Baggage 
Collection
Connecting 
Flight
Hotel 
Reservations
Car Rentals
Advertising
Promotions
Loyalty
Programs
Travel Agent
Connections
Bulk Discounts
Baggage Handling 
complaints
Complaint follow 
ups
Feedback
Customer 
Engagement
‘Go Green’ strategy
Page 1872024-2025
Unconventional | Aviation and Environment | Moderate
Click here for 
Panorama Report!

===== PAGE 188 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
 Page 1882024-2025
Engagement Assessment Retail – Interview Transcript
Yes, there is no shortage of skilled consultants at our firm in the foreseeable future. We can
move onto the next aspect you have.
Oh. I think it would be critical here to understand if this expertise and the skills can be
transferred to the retail sector.
Exactly. What are the factors you would consider when evaluating this?
I see three factors: Technological Complexity, Scale of Operations and Geographical Distribution.
I would rate the first two factors to be much more complex and nuanced in the mining sector,
hence transferring skills to the retail sector would not be an issue. However, since the client has
stores distributed across the country at the grassroot level and we have experience in Mining
that I see has a concentrated presence in only a handful of plants, we might face issues when it
comes to optimizing thousands of distributed stores.
You are a consultant for a leading management consulting firm. A potential client has been
identified by one of our partners in the retail sector. There is a possible project that can be
engaged with the client. Please help us evaluate if we should undertake the project.
Sounds good. I’d like to start with understanding more about the management consulting firm, its
location, and current scope of activities.
The firm is one of the top 3 consulting firms and the client is being engaged by the India office of
the firm. The client is an Indian company as well.
Okay. I’d further like to know more about the client in question. What kind of a retail chain is
this? What are the products being sold and does the company operate across India?
The company has stores across India, majorly on the outskirts of major cities and in small towns.
It deals in three types of products: FMCG, Apparel and Household Electronics.
Good question, close to 70% of the revenue of the company comes from Apparel and this mostly
consists of not-so-expensive clothes targeted at the lower middle-class. It is restricted to retail.
Got it. What are the kind of projects that the potential client is considering engaging our firm for?
The client has major issues with cost optimization at the store level as well as having the right
workforce size (downsizing or hiring employees as required).
Perfect. Can I please take a minute to structure my thoughts and analyse the situation?
Sure, take your time.
Interesting to know. Do we know the split of revenues or profits that each of these three product
lines bring to the company? Also, does it manufacture its products or is only into retailing?
No, this looks good.
Okay. So, I’ll start with first assessing our firm’s capabilities and determining if they are suitable
for the client and its projects. We can further look at Capability from two lenses: Subject
Expertise and Resources available.
Talking about Subject Expertise, can we further split it into two kinds of experience – industry
and domain expertise. Have we done any projects in the past either for a similar retail client or in
a very similar topic (cost optimization and workforce reduction)?
Our firm has very limited experience with clients in the retail sector. However, we have a deep
expertise in both cost as well as manpower optimization projects across industries. A majority of
our experience in this domain of projects stems from the metals and mining sector.
Coming to Resources Available, do we have enough quantum as well as skill levels of human
resources (consultants) available to undertake new projects?
Right, so I’d like to break down the engagement assessment, or rather client assessment into 3
parts: Firm Capability, Economic Viability and Operational Synergies. Do you think there could be
any additions to this structure?
Unconventional | Retail | Moderate
In that case, I’d like to move on to analyse the Economic Viability of the engagements. I’ll start by 
breaking down profitability into revenue and costs. On the cost side, do we see any other major
cost heads apart from consultant pay and project expenses such as travel, accommodation, etc?
You can consider only these two expenses to cover the major cost components. You can further
investigate the revenue side.
Sure, as I understand, many consulting projects are billed by the number of hours consultants at
each level put in. Please correct me if that’s not the case. Also, how long do we expect a typical
engagement with this client to be?
Yes, billing by the hour is one method. However, we are increasingly shifting towards variable pay
in many projects with say 20% bonus on completion of deliverables and maybe another 10% on
top if we exceed expectations. A project usually goes for 3 months but some projects are
longer.
Understood. I’d then like to split revenue into current and future benefits. Under current
benefits, I’ll take a short-term view of the revenue from a single or maybe a couple of initial
projects. My hypotheses would be that this would not be a huge amount and I’ll focus more on
the future benefits.
Sounds good. What kind of future benefits are you thinking of?
I can think of direct and indirect future benefits. The direct benefits would be future projects and
recurring or long-term consulting projects if the client is happy with our work.
Under indirect benefits, the revenue from other client projects that our firm undertakes as a
result of the expertise we build in this sector can be included. Also, positive network effects in
the form of good word of mouth by the client might be a critical long-term benefit from other
companies in the sector or the client’s value chain.
Interesting points. Is there anything about the client you’d like to evaluate in order to take the
long-term view that you’re hinting towards? How do you go about doing that?
Yes, I will want to evaluate if the client will be in a good position in the future so we can reap
these long-term benefits. A way of doing this is to project future position based on past data.
I see three elements here: Company Financials, Scale of Operations and Brand Value, which is
more intangible in nature. Do we have any data on the client’s financials to start with?
Seems like a good approach. Yes, the client’s revenues have been consistently going up and it has
been reinvesting the profits into opening new stores, growing at the rate of 50 stores annually.
Alright. This information looks encouraging. However, I would want to understand the growth in
the scale of operations to make a better assessment.
Sure, what factors are you interested in the growth of operations of the company?
3 factors: a) Performance of current stores, b) Distribution of current and new stores, c)
Competitive forces in the industry. I’d also like to understand if new stores are only for clothing
or also for other product categories?
Well, while most of the current stores are doing well, a few are unprofitable and the company
shut down some stores in major city centres. However, the growth rate of new stores on city
outskirts and small towns is much higher. The new stores are distributed evenly across the
country. As of now, we don’t see any nation-wide retail chain competing in low-end clothing,
however there are several competitors in FMCG and electronics. What is your final assessment
and what kind of consulting projects do you recommend for future revenue?
Based on the strong position in clothing segment and profitable growth across the country, I
would recommend taking up long-term projects with the client.
Further, I see projects along the value chain of the company: a) Pre-Store: Supply Chain
Optimization in logistics, in both transportation and storage, b) In-store: Digital Transformation of
its store operations, and Loyalty Program Design c) Post-store: Reverse logistics and After-sales
Sounds comprehensive. Thank you, we can close the case here.

===== PAGE 189 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
 Page 1892024-2025
Engagement Assessment Retail
Unconventional | Retail | Moderate
You are a consultant for a leading management consulting firm. A potential client has been identified by one of our partners in the retail sector. There is a 
possible project that can be engaged with the client. Please help us evaluate if we should undertake the project.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• All the stakeholders involved 
(in this case, the consulting 
firm as well as the retail 
company) need to be probed
• Diving deeper into the 
client’s objectives in engaging 
the firm gives information 
that drives structuring later 
in the case
• Starting with a high-level 
structure to evaluate the 
potential engagement and 
then adapting as per new 
firm as well client 
information helps
• Recognizing a long-term 
perspective for revenue was 
paramount in this case
• Making a balanced 
assessment based on 
synthesis of all case facts 
drove the final 
recommendation
Case Facts
• Client company operates 
in FMCG, Apparel as well 
as Electronics
• 70% of the revenue is 
driven by low-end 
clothing 
• Presence on city 
outskirts and small towns 
across India
• Client looking for cost 
and workforce 
optimization projects
• Prior firm experience of 
cost optimization in 
mining industry
• Client revenue increasing 
and growth of 50 stores 
per year
Engagement Assessment
Firm 
Capabilities
Economic 
Viability
Operational 
Synergies
Subject 
Expertise
Resources 
Available
Similar 
industry
Similar 
topic/ 
domain 
Store 
Performance
Store 
Distribution
Competitive 
Forces
Enough consultants 
available
Factors to 
compare 
transferability of 
skills/experience
Profits
Revenues Costs
Consultant 
Pay
Project 
Expenses
Current Future
Direct Indirect
Recurring and 
future projects
Positive network 
effects
Financials ScaleBrand Value
Client Position
Technological 
Complexity
Scale of 
Operations
Geographical 
Distribution
Factors to evaluate 
growth in 
operational scale 
of company
Recommendations
• Decision: Undertake the engagement with the client
• Types of Consulting Projects:
a) Pre-store: Supply Chain optimization in Logistics (Transportation and Storage)
b) In-store: Digital Transformation of store operations, Loyalty program design
c) Post-store: Reverse Logistics, After-sales-support resilience
Key Learnings
• It is important to adapt the preliminary questions to probe a few steps further into the 
split of revenues across products or value chain aspects.
• Taking cues from the interviewer on where they prefer driving the interview and asking 
relevant questions throughout the case gives important information. 
• Stating a hypothesis and confirming with the interviewer when not sure about a particular 
industry demonstrates clarity and confidence.
Hour-based and
Variable billing
Click here for 
Panorama Report!

===== PAGE 190 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
The client is a web-based media news aggregator platform. The website has been seeing a drop in
traffic of late. Diagnose and recommend solutions.
I would like to confirm the objective before I proceed. The client’s website has seen a drop in
traffic, and they want to figure out why this is happening and fix it. Is there another objective?
No other objective.
Okay, I have a couple of questions. What exactly do you mean by traffic? Would you count the
same user accessing through different mediums such as phone, laptop, etc., as separate traffic?
Good question, we consider every hit on our website as traffic, regardless of which user it is. So,
to answer your question specifically, yes, we would recognise that as separate traffic.
Thank you. Going further, I would like to check if there is any data regarding the change in traffic
over the last two-three timeframes. What is “of late”? How was the trend before that?
We’ve been seeing a steady decline in number of users since about 6-7 months now. Before that,
we were witnessing healthy traffic growth rates, ~ 20% every year since inception in 2016.
Alright, by decline you mean an absolute decline in the total number of users and just not a
decline in the growth rate, right? Also, is this an industry-wide issue?
Yes, for both.
Alright, thank you. So just to summarise everything so far, the website has been seeing a decline in
hits on the website over the past few months, which goes against the general trends observed
over two years.
Sounds good.
I believe that traffic can be broken down into traffic from first time users and traffic from repeat
users. Do we have any data regarding which of these two segments have taken a hit?
Yes, we have data saying that the number of new users are still growing at a steady rate, while the
number of repeat users have been declining at a pretty quick pace.
Thank you. I shall look into the possible reasons for a decline in traffic from repeat users now. I
believe that a user looks for three things when using a website, especially a content site like a
media aggregator. The first would be the quality of the content, the second would be the cost of
the content, and the third would be the delivery of the content. I shall delve into these to figure
out where the issue is stemming from.
Okay, go ahead
Firstly, has the quality of the content we are delivering to consumers changed in any way in the
last six months? Has the editorial team changed? Have the journalists changed?
No significant changes
Alright. Do we know if the pricing of the website has changed in the last six months, with
something like a free trial for first-time users? Has a significant competitor reduced their prices or
changed their pricing structure recently?
No, none of us have made any changes to the pricing structure in the relevant timeframe.
Alright, I think the issue stems from the delivery of content. I shall break this down in to two
components: operational and aesthetic, and then drill down.
Okay, go ahead.
The operational component can be broken down into:
- Internal factors: Here I would like to know whether the speed of website has declined due to
website architecture or increased load.
- External Factors: I would like to know whether the competitive landscape due to maybe
competitors investing in better content. There could also be regulatory change which can
force us to change the way we deliver our content. Maybe government restrictions or
censoring.
Good. So, there is no change in the speed of the website nor there is any change in the competitive
landscape. However, there has been a recent regulatory change. The company operates in the EU
region. That should give you a hint on what it could be.
Ah! EU recently launched the new Global Data Protection & Regulation Act (GDPR) that could have
led to a decline in traffic.
Correct. To comply with the act, we have to show a bright red visible banner that informs the user
that the website is using cookies to track activity and takes consent from him/her for the same.
Ah, so I believe that repeated visits to the website are becoming cumbersome owing to have to click
on the large banner each time they visit the website, thus leading to an overall decline in the quality
of the customer experience.
That is correct. Any recommendations for the same?
Without having a detailed sense about GDPR, I propose the following:
a. Make the banner less flashy and intrusive, but visible. So, any changes to the color scheme and
the font type to make it less in-the-face can help reduce the impact on the customer.
b. Focus on developing quality content: While the website now is only a media aggregator, the
company can take steps to develop exclusive content with top writers so that users are forced to
put up with the banner in order to consume quality content.
c. Move away from a user tracking model and consolidate content delivery as the only feature.
Remove features that require user data. This would also help allay fears that the website can be used
to influence public opinion based on popular sentiment.
That will be all, thank you.
Unconventional | Media | Moderate
Declining website traffic – Interview transcript
Page 1902024-2025

===== PAGE 191 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
The client is a web-based media news aggregator platform. The website has been seeing a drop in traffic off late. Diagnose and recommend
solutions
Recommendations:
The issue is with the new, obtrusive, legally-mandated GDPR cookies banner, which is ruining user experience. Thus,
a. Make the banner less flashy and intrusive, but visible. 
b. Focus on developing quality content.
c. Move away from a user tracking model and consolidate content delivery
Key Learnings:
a. There were some redundant questions given that the interviewee had identified that the problem is not company-specific but industry-wide. Such questions should be avoided.
b. It is important to take time and think the framework/approach through clearly in cases such as this one where none of the conventional frameworks can be applied. (Can be looked at, 
through the lens of Company, Customer, Competitor and Product)
c. It might be worthwhile knowing some common digital marketing terms such as bounce rate, click through rate etc.
Interviewee Notes
• Steady growth rates 
previously
• Problem is with retention 
of users
• Identify drivers of repeat 
users
• Understand the factors 
that could lead to attrition
Case Facts
• Industry wide issue
• No problem with new users
• No new competition
• No changes in pricing by any of 
the companies
• No change in content quality
Unconventional | Media | Moderate
Declining website traffic
Page 1912024-2025
Approach/ Framework

===== PAGE 192 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad 2024-2025
Public Distribution System – Interview Transcript
Unconventional | Social Impact | Public Sector | Moderate
The Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution has been witnessing lower
collections from the Public Distribution System. They have approached you to identify the key
drivers behind this trend.
Interesting. If I understand correctly, the fair price shops under the PDS sell basic grains at
extremely affordable prices and this scheme is run jointly by the Centre and the states.
Yes, that’s right. The shops largely distribute 4 products – wheat, rice, sugar, and kerosene. These
products are procured by the central government while the fair price shops are run by the
individual state governments, which are also responsible for issuance of ration cards to the eligible
people.
Understood. Have all states experienced lower collections? Or is the problem specific to certain
states?
Good question. The problem has been most prominently observed in Kerala. For the purpose of
this case, you can focus on just that.
Alright. Since when has the Ministry witnessing this problem? Could you also quantify the extent of
the issue for me?
While we do not have very solid estimates, collections have gone down over 30% in the last 2
years.
Thanks. Also, have collections gone down for any specific foodgrain, or is it largely consistent
across products? From what I understand, rice would be the staple grain for Kerala while wheat
consumption would be low.
The issue is not specific to any grain. It’s a trend being witnessed across all shops in Kerala for all
products.
Okay, I have adequate information to step into solving the problem now. I would first look at the
lower collections issue. Given the product mix is not relevant, the collections can be determined as
below:
Collections = # of beneficiaries x monthly quantity purchased per beneficiary x central issue price
That’s fair. We know that the central issue prices have not gone down. It’s a volume problem.
Interesting. Since ration cards are usually issued for a period of 5 years and this problem has been
observed only over the last couple years, I believe the number of beneficiaries going down is not
the key issue. Additionally, the centers for registration and renewal of ration cards are also highly
accessible, thus the beneficiary list should not move much.
With this assumption, monthly quantity purchased per beneficiary is likely where the issue lies.
Yes, the number of beneficiaries have not gone down drastically but they have been tapering their
quantity purchased from the fair price shops.
Looking from an internal-external perspective, this could either be due to increased utility provided
from other sources (external driver) or decreased utility from the existing source (internal driver).
Assume that the quality of the produce and ease of disbursal of the PDS scheme has remained
constant over the years.
This leads me to believe that the beneficiaries have more value accretive options available to them.
I would like to segment them into government schemes or non-government (private) schemes. It
seems unlikely that private players would cater to BPL segments, as the margins here tend to be
slim.
Yes, though private players have not changed their offerings, we can look at other government
schemes.
People may have increased their discretionary spending towards other schemes by the
government. Given that it is a recent problem, there can be two reasons for this, either the
existing offerings have become more attractive to customers or some new offerings from
government have been launched.
It seems that beneficiaries are leaning towards newer government schemes. Can you analyse
why?
Sure. We can consider the following parameters to ascertain higher preference towards other
schemes:
1. Awareness
2. Accessibility
3. Affordability
4. Acceptability
Alright. Go ahead.
Herein, I believe that awareness of government schemes would have remained fairly stable over
the last 2 years. We have established that accessibility is not a concern. Fair-price shops are
heavily subsidized; thus, affordability should not be a problem.
Thus, acceptability must be the factor of concern. Am I correct in assuming this?
Page 192
Yes, you may proceed.
I would address the issue by dividing the customer journey into three stages: pre-purchase,
where consumers are influenced by awareness and perceived value of alternative offerings;
during purchase, where they assess the functionality, quality, and service levels; and post-
purchase, where they evaluate overall satisfaction and whether the product met their
expectations.
You are right, from our observations, it appears that the problem may lie predominantly in the
post-purchase stage.
If the issue is mainly in the post-purchase stage, it suggests that while consumers are initially
drawn to PDS offerings for affordability and accessibility, the quality—particularly in taste and
nutrition—may fall short of expectations. This dissatisfaction could lead them to seek alternative
options that offer better long-term satisfaction.
That’s exactly where the problem lies. The issue seems rooted in the declining quality of the
grains distributed through the PDS, which no longer meets people’s expectations. As a result,
they are turning to perceived higher-quality alternatives, such as the offerings from the Amma
Canteen type initiative from the Kerala government, which provide better taste and nutrition at
similar prices. Given this, what recommendations would you suggest to address this issue?
Certainly, I would like to divide my recommendations into short-term and long-term. In short
term, They should enhance quality control in the PDS to improve grain taste and nutrition, and
implement a feedback system to swiftly address consumer concerns, thereby restoring
confidence and satisfaction among beneficiaries. In the long term, they must establish
partnerships with reliable suppliers to ensure consistent, high-quality grain sourcing and launch a
public awareness campaign to rebuild trust in PDS offerings by highlighting these improvements.
Absolutely. Now that we've identified the key driver and outlined actionable recommendations,
we can close the case.

===== PAGE 193 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
The Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution has been witnessing lower collections from the Public Distribution System. 
They have approached you to identify the key drivers behind this trend. 
Case Facts
• Client is the Ministry of 
Consumer Affairs (PDS)
• Problem of decreasing 
collections
• Problem specific to Kerala
• 30% decline in collections 
over the last 2 years
• Consistent across all food 
grains
Interviewee notes
• Prices have not 
changed, neither have 
the # of total 
beneficiaries
• Beneficiaries reducing 
their monthly quantity 
purchased 
• Increased utility 
provided by other 
government schemes
2024-2025
Decreased 
internal utility 
Public Distribution System – Interview Transcript
Unconventional | Social Impact | Public Sector | Moderate
Observations / Suggestions
• It is important to narrow down to the geography/segment where the problem lies, at the start of the case
• Once the problem is identified, it is important to figure out the reasons for the same – quantitative formulas can help you remain MECE in your structure
• Candidate needs to develop an understanding of the value chain in public sector disbursal schemes
• Another possible segmentation in the end for acceptability could have been functional and psychological acceptability, this i ssue would have covered both
Page 193
Approach/ Framework
Monthly quantity 
per beneficiary
# of 
beneficiaries
Central 
Issue Price
Government 
Schemes Private
AcceptabilityAwareness Affordability Accessibility
Pre Post
Increased 
external utility
Revenue
During

===== PAGE 194 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
UK Oil Crisis – Interview Transcript
Unconventional | Energy Sector | Moderate
Sure. The most obvious reason that comes to my mind is the covid scenario. The drivers might
have returned to their hometowns due to low work availability and are facing issues now because
of travel restrictions. The other most probable reason could be a pay cut due to covid which has
reduced the supply of drivers. One other reason could be a shift of drivers to other professions
which seems a bit unlikely given the short time frame of the problem.
Good, you are correct. The drivers had returned to their homelands due lesser work availability,
and they are now facing issues to return to UK given travel restrictions due to covid and Brexit
scenario. Now that you know the reason, can you suggest some recommendations to overcome
the same?
The number of productive driver hours can be calculated by the number of drivers, the working
hours per driver and the efficiency of the drivers. Do we know which of the above three factors
might have declined?
Yes, the number of drivers has declined which is causing the delay in transfer of fuel to stations
which, in turn are causing long lines at these stations. Can you think of some possible reasons as
to why the number of drivers might have declined?
Definitely. I would like to break down the recommendations into two broad categories: short 
term and long term.
Under the short-term recommendations, I would suggest three ways:
1. Provide the drivers with essential workers status to ease their movements.
2. Increase the working hours of current drivers with overtime pay.
3. Keep the military on standby for extreme circumstances.
Under the long-term recommendations, I would suggest two ways:
1. Build train tracks connecting refineries to major towns enabling transfer of fuel through 
trains, thus, limiting the dependability on drivers.
2. Build state level reserves of fuel for usage in times of emergency.
Alright. Let’s stop here. Well done. Thank you.
I would break the problem down into a formula of oil transported with drivers being a key factor:
Quantity of oil transferred = Quantity of oil per driver hour* no. of hours per driver* total
number of drivers.
Yes, that’s a good observation. How would you analyze the problem further?
To analyze the problem further, I would like to look at it from the perspective of different
components involved. I would segregate the transportation phase into 4 components, i.e., namely
the fuel transportation related issues, the truck related issues, driver related issues, and route
related issues.
Good, that’ a good breakup. The issue seems to be with the drivers.
Next, I would like to understand if we are operating in post covid and Brexit scenario?
Yes, we are in a post covid and Brexit scenario.
Next, I would like to know if the long lines are pertaining for a specific fuel or is it across all types
of fuel stations?
Next, we know that there are three processes involved during the transportation of oil from
refineries to the stations. The loading up of trucks with fuels, the transportation of trucks from
refineries to the stations and the unloading of oil into the stations. Do we know which process is
causing the most trouble?
Your client is the government of UK and they are facing an oil crisis across the country.
The client wants you to analyse why and suggest some measures to solve the problem.
I would like to understand what does the client mean by an oil crisis. Also, I would like to
know the time frame of the crisis.
There are extremely long lines at the gas stations across the country. The crisis is a
recent phenomenon and there is no specific time frame.
Okay, I would now like to understand our sources of oil. How much do we import and
how much do we mine internally? Also, in what form do we import the oil and from which
countries?
Good question, we do have some oil mining facilities in the country, but for simplicity, you
can assume that we import all the oil we consume. We import the oil from Saudi Arabia,
mostly in the form of crude oil which needs further processing to separate it into its
components.
The long lines are there for all types of fuel stations.
Oh Okay, so the long lines at the fuel stations could be due to three reasons – increased
demand, inefficient fuel station management or inadequate supply, although, the second reason
seems unlikely given it’s a recent phenomenon. Do we know which one is the case here?
Great observation, the crisis is due to inadequate supply of fuel to the stations.
Now, the inadequate supply could be due to internal problems while processing and transporting
the oil in our country or due to inadequate import?
We are facing issues due to issues internal to the country.
Moving forward to further understand the situation, I would like to understand what part of value
chain is causing the problem. I would like to break down the value chain into its parts and narrow
down the problem.
The crude oil is transferred from the ships to the dockyard, from where, trains are being used to
transport the oil to the refineries for further processing. The refineries use distillation to separate
crude oil into its components and the trucks to transport the oil to the fuel stations. Do we
know what part of the value chain is causing the issue of inadequate supply?
Good breakup of the value chain. The loading of oil to dockyards, transporting it to refineries and
processing them does not seem to have any issue. The major issue occurs when the trucks are
used for transportation of oil to the stations
Good, let us look at the transportation phase. Why don’t you move ahead with analysing the
reasons for the same.
2024-2025 Page 194

===== PAGE 195 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Recommendations
1. Short term: a) Provide the drivers with essential workers status to ease their movements.
b) Increase the working hours of current drivers with overtime pay.
c) Keep the military on standby for extreme circumstances.
2. Long term: a) Build train tracks connecting refineries to major towns enabling transfer of fuel through trains, thus, limiting the dependability on drivers.
b) Build state level reserves of fuel for usage in times of emergency.
Key Learnings
• It is important to think about the factors local to the problem statement. Here, covid and Brexit, both factors played up a m ajor role in this situation.
• Inquiring about the product segmentation during the preliminary phase gives a lot of context. Had this been a problem with a particular fuel, the situation would have been way different.
Your client is the government of UK and they are facing an oil crisis across the country. The client wants you to analyse why and suggest some measures
to solve the problem.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• It is important to 
understand the problem 
statement at hand i.e., 
what does the 
interviewer mean by an 
oil crisis.
• Enquire about the 
sources of fuel and the 
specific fuel type facing 
the problem.
• It is important to analyze 
every part of value chain.
• Inadequate supply is 
causing long lines at fuel 
stations.
• Import has not declined.
• Productive driving hours 
have declined.
Case Facts
• Focus on fuel only 
through imports. 
• The long lines are 
being caused by 
inadequate supply.
• There are no issues 
with import of fuel.
• The issue is with the 
transportation phase 
to fuel stations.
• There is no issue 
with the trucks, the 
fuel transferred and 
the route taken. 
• The problem arises 
due to the decline in 
no. of drivers due to 
Brexit and covid.
Oil Crisis
Increased 
demand
Inadequate 
supply
Internal 
Problems
Inadequate
import
Transport
to refineries
UK Oil Crisis
Page 195
Truck
Inefficient station 
management
Transport to 
stations
Transfer to 
dockyards
Processing in 
refineries
Loading UnloadingTransport
FuelRoute
Driver
# Drivers
Working 
hours / driver
Efficiency
Unconventional | Energy Sector | Moderate
Click here for:  
Panorama Report 1
Panorama Report 2
2024-2025

===== PAGE 196 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Is adopting a dog without paying any initial price an option?
That is not an option.
Okay, next I will look at the parents' income to assess the financial feasibility. Do we have 
any information on that?
The combined income of the parents is Rs. 10,00,000.
Okay, so within the first year, 10% of their gross income would go towards the dog. This 
is a very significant amount. Moreover, considering that 6% of their yearly income would 
go towards this is also not very sustainable.
Fair, let’s leave this for now and move on to the feasibility.
Under feasibility, the following activities need to be done daily to ensure that the dog
stays well-groomed:
1. Walk
2. Feeding and Bathing
3. Cleaning
4. Playing and Training
Since both the parents are working and taking care of the daughter, and assuming the
daughter would also be going to school daily, they have 2 options. They can either take
the dog to work with them, which isn’t permitted in most workplaces, or appoint a
caretaker.
On a long-term basis, they would also need to assess how they will provide for the dog in
case they decide to go on any trips or vacations or in any unforeseen circumstances.
Great, let’s move on to the final recommendations.
I would recommend that in the short term, they should not get a dog. Instead, they can 
address the cause of the problem by spending more time with the daughter and enrolling 
her in more activities so that she is engaged.
In the medium run, they can consider less costly alternatives, like adopting a more pocket-
friendly and lower-maintenance pet. Alternatively, they can also explore the idea of buying 
a toy to compensate for the need.
However, a more long-term solution would be ensuring the daughter gets enough 
attention. They can spend time with her, and plan activities, and if she still wants to spend 
time with dogs, then they can explore the idea of enrolling her as a volunteer in a dog 
care shelter or with other NGOs for pets. This will provide her with a sense of 
connection with animals.
If, over time, their income improves and once the daughter turns to an age where she can 
maintain herself and the dog, then the financial and operational feasibility would improve 
and they can also look at purchasing the dog, given that the need persists.
Thank you, we can stop the case here.
Your friend has a daughter who wants a pet dog. He needs your advice in making this 
decision. Analyze the situation and provide your recommendations.
Got it, so I have a few questions. What is the age of his daughter?
She is around eight years old.
And can you also share who else is in the family? Where do they live?
There are three members, your friend, his wife, and his daughter. They live in a residential 
society in Gurgaon.
Okay, and is my friend and his wife both employed in full time jobs? What do they do?
Yes, they both have regular salaried jobs.
Understood, and one last question, what is the reason behind the daughter asking for a 
dog? Is there any specific breed of dog that she is asking for?
She prefers a golden retriever dog. What do you think could be the reason behind her 
asking for the dog?
I think that there could be multiple reasons, which can be bifurcated into needs and wants. 
Under needs, I will look at 3 types of needs, 
The safety need that can be fulfilled by the dog’s presence
Belongingness need to be fulfilled by the dog as a companion
Esteem need by taking the responsibility of the upkeep of the dog
On the other hand, she could also just want the dog because many of her friends have it, 
or because people residing nearby have dogs. Is it any of these reasons?
Yes, it is because the dog would be a support to her since both her parents are occupied 
for a good part of the day.
Okay, so I will divide my analysis into 2 parts. Firstly, I will look at the financial implications 
of getting the dog, and secondly, I will analyze the feasibility in terms of daily maintenance.
Sounds good, let’s start with the financial aspect.
Under the financial aspect, I will further analyse this as one-time costs, which are fixed in 
nature, and recurring costs which will be incurred on a monthly basis. The one-time costs 
will include the purchase of the dog, vaccinating and sterilizing it. There will also be a 
recurring cost of food, vet visits and regular maintenance.
What is the price at which the pet dog can be purchased? 
The purchase price is Rs. 30,000, while the other one-time costs will total up to around 
Rs. 10,000. Other recurring costs will be around Rs. 5000 monthly. 
That means a one-time cost of Rs. 40,000 and annual costs of Rs. 60,000, totaling to yearly 
cost of Rs. 1,00,000 for the first year and Rs. 60,000 after that. 
Purchase of Dog – Interview Transcript
Unconventional | Abstract | Moderate | Arthur D. Little
Page 1962024-2025

===== PAGE 197 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Recommendations
• With the analysis, it was concluded that a golden retriever dog shouldn’t be purchased immediately. 
• Alternatives can be adopting or purchasing a new animal (which fulfills the same needs and wants).
Key Learnings
• It is important to understand the reason behind the analysis being done to clearly define the objective that needs to be fulf illed.
• Necessary to look at numbers as a proportion rather than on a standalone basis (expenses as a fraction of the income, rather than on an absolute basis).
• Try to recommend more feasible alternatives in case your suggestion is to not go ahead with the proposal that the interviewer has asked you to evaluate.
Your friend has a daughter who wants a pet dog. He needs your advice in making this decision. Analyze the situation and provide your
recommendations.
Interviewee Notes
• It is important to understand 
the nature of the demand –
whether the daughter needs 
the dog as a whim or as a 
need
• Next, it is essential to 
understand all the 
implications of purchasing a 
dog, immediate and 
consequent
• It is important to check in 
with interviewer from time 
to time, and make the 
conversation more of a 
dialogue
• Try to segment every aspect, 
further segmentation of 
financial and non-financial 
parameters instead of just 
laundry listing them will earn 
you brownie points
Case Facts
• Your friend wants help 
with a purchase 
decision
• First, the 
objective/reason for 
purchase is determined
• The costs and benefits 
are weighed against 
each other to assess the 
feasibility of the 
purchase
• The costs have further 
been looked at from a 
monetary and non-
monetary, and an 
immediate and 
subsequent perspective
Financial 
Feasibility
Purchase of Dog 
Non-financial 
Feasibility
Unconventional | Abstract | Moderate | Arthur D. Little
One Time Costs 
(Fixed)
Vet Visits
Maintenance
Sterilization Costs
Purchase Price
Vaccinations
Daily Food
Feeding
Cleaning
Walking
Playing/Training
Recurring Costs
(Variable)
Approach/ Framework
Purchase of Dog
2024-2025 Page 197

===== PAGE 198 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Ski Slope – Interview Transcript
Your client has inherited land on a ski slope from his grandfather. What would you suggest him
to do?
I would like to understand more about the land first. How big is the land and where is it located?
How can it be accessed – through roadways, air and/or water ways? Is it a touristy area or is it
secluded and unexplored?
It is 5 acres of land located in a remote location 20 kms away from Manali. There is a small road
that connects this land to the mall road at Manali. It is mostly unexplored and there is no other
significant structure/building around the property.
Are there any special features about this land? Is it rich in minerals or extremely fertile?
No nothing of that sort.
Okay, I would also like to know a bit about the client background. What he does and if he has
monetary objectives like maximining profits, stabilizing cash flows. Or non-monetary objectives
like an emotional attachment, philanthropy?
The client is a big industrialist, and he wishes to gain profits from this land.
Is the client open to diversifying his business? And does he have any limitations on investment?
Yes, he is open to diversification. There are no limitations on capital.
Great. The client can either decide to sell or own the land partially or fully. However, selling
would not be a good option given the objective. If he owns the land, he can choose to construct
asset(s) on the land and monetize them himself, construct asset(s) on the land and rent them out
to someone else or simply rent out the bare land.
The client wishes to own the land himself and construct assets for earning revenue.
Alright, the client can start a business in the primary, secondary or tertiary sector. Since the land
is not fertile or mineral rich, primary sector can be ignored. The client’s background as an
industrialist will help if choosing the secondary sector. However, given that the land is a ski slope
the most attractive option could be in the tertiary sector especially in the hospitality industry.
Makes sense. Assume the client wants to open a ski resort on the land. Would you recommend
this to him?
Before that, I would like to understand more about the kind of ski resort the client would like to
open. Who would the target market be? Who are the competitors?
The client wants to open a high-end ski resort for wealthy Indians. Competitors would include
other luxury hotels/resorts in North India with skiing facilities.
Ok, to check the feasibility of this, I would like to assess 3 things - i) the attractiveness of this
proposition, ii) feasibility of opening this resort in terms of both financial and operational aspects
and iii) long term sustainability of the project. Does this seem like a fair approach?
Yes please go on.
Given that the objective is profits, I would like to look at 3 factors while assessing the
attractiveness of the proposition- the market demand, the expected share of demand that the
client can gain and the profitability of the proposition. The market demand is the Total
Addressable Market (TAM) including both skiers & non skiers who wish to visit ski resorts.
Further, we can estimate the profitability for a year as Market demand * Market share * (Price -
Variable costs on a per person basis) - Fixed costs. Do we have any data regarding the same?
Assume the TAM is 5 Million people & we can gain 2% of these customers in a year. Variable
costs are 98% of price & fixed costs are Rs 2 Million. How would you estimate the price? Is the
proposition attractive?
Pricing can be estimated by benchmarking costs, analyzing competitors or estimating customer
value. There are 2 services offered by the ski resort - (1) Boarding and lodging facilities (II)
Skiing.
For (1) we can use competitor-based pricing as customers will compare with other resorts while
booking for a vacation. Since this is a premium ski resort it can be compared with a resort like
Khyber in Jammu and Kashmir which charges ~Rs 20000-30000 a night with meals included. As
new entrants we can price ourselves ~Rs 15000-25000 depending on the seasonal demand. For
(II) we can use value-based pricing. Rs 1000 charged for one-hour slot at entertainment parks like
Snow World, could be taken as a proxy to price the skiing service.
Assumed the average stay length is 2 days, the occupancy is 2 people in a room and person skis 2
hours on an average, the average price paid by each person is Rs 22,000 which translates to
5M*2%*(2%*22000)-2M = Rs 42 million annually. Thus, this proposition is attractive.
Is there any other way you could check the profitability? Ignore the ski park.
Yes, this can also be looked at from the supply side. We can assume with a land of 5 acres, the
resort has roughly 100 rooms. In the 6 months of snow, we can assume an 80% occupancy rate
and in the rest 6 months, a 50% occupancy rate. We can then multiply this with the price-variable
costs on a per room basis and finally subtract fixed costs.
That sounds fair. Could you move on to the next part of the analysis
Sure. Next, I would look at the market entry feasibility which would be divided into financial and
operational feasibility. The client has no limitations on investment and is already a big industrialist
who will have access to capital markets for raising debt. Hence the initial funding should not be an
issue. Other things we could look at are the timeframe of the project in terms of payback period
and the consistency of cash flows.
There are no issues with the payback period. What risk do you foresee with cash flows?
The major issue I can think of is high variability in the cash flows. A large chunk of the investment
will be upfront, and revenues will trickle slowly. Moreover, since this is a seasonal industry, there
will be higher unpredictability during non-seasonal times. However, to avoid the latter, the client
can position the ski resort as an luxury wellness retreat center offering therapies like Ayurveda.
Ok sounds good. Moving on, what will your considerations be in operational feasibility?
This can be divided into 3 phases – pre-construction, construction, functional phases. During the
pre-construction phase issues can arise due to non-transferability of skill of the entrepreneur
since this is a new industry for him, government regulations, permits required and environmental
impact assessment. In the construction phase we should consider 4 things –accessibility of the
location to transport supplies, contractor selection, correct weather selection for construction
and the boarding lodging requirements for workers. The main issues of the operational phase
would be around accessibility of resort by road, customer safety and all-round availability of staff
at the resort.
Fair. Assume all this is feasible for the client. What would you do next?
The last thing I would check for is the long-term sustainability of the project. The long-term
competitive advantages that the client can leverage are the prime location of the land and his
financial backing as an already established industrialist. However, the client would also face threats
and risks. This can be divided into internal and external factors. Internal factors would include
safety hazards and non-accessibility to resources owing to remote location. External risks would
be posed from entry of a new competitor, adverse weather conditions, economic risks where a
recession or a pandemic like covid shrinks the demand for vacations or political risks.
Good. Assume the client is very happy with your analysis and wishes to go forward with this plan.
What kind of business models can he chose from to operate and run this resort?
The client can choose to carry on operations organically or inorganically. In the first case he can
either start a new chain of hotels or put the resort under the current brand he operates.
Inorganically, he can choose out of 3 options- enter a joint venture with an existing chain of
hotels, outsource the day-to-day operations to another firm or enter into a franchise agreement.
Unconventional | Hospitality | Moderate
2024-2025 Page 198

===== PAGE 199 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Recommendations
• Client should enter the market since market is attractive, project is feasible and sustainable.
• Business Models for operation include entering a joint venture with an existing chain of hotels, outsourcing the day-to-day operations to another firm or entering into a franchise agreement
• Client should be cognizant of internal risks like safety hazards, non-accessibility to resources and external risks from competition, weather, economy or politics
Key Learnings
• It is important to break down how the attractiveness of the project is measured. In this case it is as per profitability - the objective of the client.
• It is important to think about multiple ways you can use the business despite having thought of opening a ski resort in the very first instance.
• Market entry can be broken down into 3 questions: (1)Is the market attractive for you to enter? (II) Is this attractiveness s ustainable? (III) Is it viable for you to enter the market?
Your client has inherited land on a ski slope from his grandfather. What would you suggest him to do.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Though this starts out as 
a vague unconventional 
case it has elements of 
Market entry and Pricing.
• Understand 
characteristics of the land 
and objective of the client 
well.
• It is important to 
distinguish if the land itself 
is the asset or some 
other construction would 
be done to supplement it.
• Once you chose to own 
the land, it is important to 
break it down further 
into creating a business 
around it or simply 
leasing it out. 
Case Facts
• Client has got a piece 
of land on a ski slope
• Land is 20 kms from 
Manali in remote 
location
• Wishes to enter the 
hospitality industry 
with a high-end ski 
resort for wealthy 
Indians
• Questions on 
profitability and 
pricing of the 
product after giving 
data on TAM and 
costs
• No financial 
constraints on 
investment
Land
Sell
Own
Construct Asset & 
Monetize business
Lease only 
the land
Construct Asset 
& Rent it out
Primary Secondary Tertiary Market entry 
for Ski resort 
Attractiveness of 
the Project Feasibility Sustainability 
Market demand * Market share 
* (Price - Variable costs on a 
per person basis) - Fixed costs
Pricing based on
Competitor for 
Stay Value for Skiing
Financial Operational 
Pre-
Construction Construction Functional 
Risks & 
Threats
Strengths & 
Opportunities 
Internal External
Ski Slope
Unconventional | Hospitality | Moderate
Click here for 
Panorama Report!
2024-2025 Page 199

===== PAGE 200 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
The CEO of Flipkart has reached out to you to evaluate the business opportunity of merging
Flipkart Fashion, Myntra and Jabong to realize economies of scale. Could you advise the clients on
the same?
Before analyzing the problem statement, I would like to understand our client better. What are
the three businesses and how are the three different?
You may assume them to be three different subsidiaries of Flipkart catering to Apparel and
Fashion Accessories. Myntra basically caters to middle-aged women, providing modern Indian
wear. Jabong on the other hand, is more youth oriented and emphasizes strongly on latest fashion
and western wear. Flipkart Fashion is more generic, catering to all three of them
Great. Is there any specific, tangible objective the client has behind this merger?
The client feels that he can increase revenue while decreasing cost through this. However, other
executives have cited concern over this. He wants to maximize profits for Flipkart both in the
short and in the long run.
Alright. Could you help me understand which set of operation are we looking to merge? Both
frontend and backend?
Yes, we are open to all sorts of integration. The client wants to integrate at-least some portion, if
not all, of both frontend and backend
Great. I would like to take a minute to structure my thoughts around the same. I would like to
divide the analysis into three aspects: a) Financial Feasibility, where I would like to focus on
Revenues and Costs; b) Operational Feasibility, where I would analyze the creation of synergies in
the value chain; c) Risks involved where I would focus on Internal and External Risks that could
affect us in the long run.
That seems to be fine. Let’s begin the analysis.
There are two revenue streams of Flipkart: From transactions and from advertisers. The
transactional revenue is depended on the no of visitors on platform, % of them who get
converted, transactions per customer and the sales value per transaction. Starting with the no of
visitors, it depends upon the brand of the platform and the awareness among the users. We
should decide what should be the name of the single platform. Since Flipkart is the most popular
of them all, we should keep Flipkart. There might be Myntra customers who shop for other
products on Flipkart. However, as seen in the world of social network, people today prefer
specific portals over generic, particularly in a highly involved purchase like apparel. Hence, there
is a risk we might lose out on customers in the short run.
True. However, there would be Jabong customers who would be moving out of the target
customer base. While they would drop off the platform in the short run, the integration would
ensure they still find the platform useful.
Absolutely. However, we must also consider the positioning of the brand eventually. Myntra is
famous for modern Indian wear, which would play a large role in attracting its customers.
Switching the positioning to a generic platform might entail losing out on a long-standing goodwill.
We might have to consider promoting across all platforms equally, as our customer base would
be highly heterogenous. Even if the customer is aware, the next step is downloading the app or
hitting the website. It is there we would be realizing huge benefits of scale. Due to low phone
memories, particularly in rural India, people generally would prefer keeping only 1 app in the
mobile instead of 3. Integrating the platforms would help us cater to the entire family of users
through the single app.
True. However, the client is concerned that the integration would make both the website as well
as the app very heavy for download.
True. For website, we can think about having an easy to load homepage, which would gradually open
to subsequent pages to better manage download. For app, we must divide the entire download into
two parts, first the default app which should be small. Subsequently, on every usage, we should
download live data of the page from the server, to better manage the size. The major concern for
me is that a platform like Flipkart would not be able to provide the specific, personalized filters
available on Jabong/Myntra related to apparels. However, due to large amount of data, would be able
to gather a lot of customer data to better curate recommendations
Absolutely. Anything else you would like to add?
We can also look towards providing a uniform loyalty program with which every customer is able to
benefit for every purchase on the platform, be it for himself or for his family. With a
recommendation system, cross-selling would also improve, thereby leading to better loyalty.
We can also leverage the loyalty program to create discount programs and product bundles. Can I
move to the advertisement revenue now?
Yes, how do you think that would be affected?
Advertisement revenue could further be split into no of advertisers that we would enroll, the
frequency of ads they demand, the impressions per ad and the price per impression. I feel that since
the space would be limited along with a generic platform, apparel brands who used to target specific
customers might feel their brand get diluted on a generic platform like Flipkart. However, we would
be able to target a lot of non-apparel brands as Flipkart hosts a wide variety of products. Since the
number of visitors would increase as all of them would arrive on one platform over three, the
impressions would increase. We can further improve impressions by creating targeted
advertisements based on rich data we would be getting, further enhancing the per impression price.
Great. That looks comprehensive. Could you also look into the operational aspects, their synergies
and the impact on costs.
Sure. For this, I would be creating the entire value chain. We would first need developers to
maintain the app, which would be just one as compared to three. Suppliers and sellers would be
apprehensive as now the competition would increase manifolds for them. However, in the long run,
due to network effects and high switching costs, the customer turnout would increase, reducing the
bargaining power of sellers. We would also be able to capitalize heavily on logistics and warehousing
expenses with the increase in scale. For after-sales service, a uniform employee force would lead to
cost savings along with optimization of marketing expenditure.
What are the possible risks associated with this merger? Which all stakeholders we should be most
concerned off?
The first is the legal aspect to it. CCI might be against creating a firm with such a large market
power. We should also consider if the integration would be culturally unfit. Myntra and Jabong are
different in terms of organization, goals and positioning. This would otherwise deter the synergies
we aim to capture through the combined platform.
Fine. Could you summarize your recommendations as to what steps should the client take on the
same?
The client should look to immediately consider the integration as far as the backend is concerned, as
it would help in reducing cost without hampering customer purchase. However, the client should
duly consider slow progress as the foundations of the resulting large organization should be strong.
In the front-end, the client should run a pilot about the positioning and the brand name to
understand customer response. If the response is positive, it should go ahead with integration on
that end as well. If not, the three platforms should be maintained separate with a common loyalty
program. This would improve the visibility of the platforms, allowing for an integration 2-3 years
later.
Horizontal integration in E-commerce – Interview Transcript
Unconventional | E-commerce | Challenging
2024-2025 Page 200

===== PAGE 201 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Supplier Backlash
Logistical Overload
Packaging Inefficiency
Distribution Wastage
Cannibalization
Damage to Image
Default Risk
The CEO of Flipkart has approached you to evaluate the opportunity of integrating the Flipkart- Fashion division of Flipkart, Myntra and Jabong
together into a single entity. What components of the three businesses should he integrate and what he should not?
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
About the business
Three different subsidiaries
Myntra:
Target age - (>35) years
Fashion – Indian wear
Jabong:
Target age - 14-35 years
Fashion – Western wear
Flipkart:
Target age – 14-60 years
Fashion – All
Objective of integration
To maximize revenue 
potential in the long run
Scope of integration
Open to all avenues: 
complete integration under 
1 label to integration of 
some part of businesses
Horizontal integration in E-commerce
Recommendations:
• The client should submit a proposal for backend integration of the operations of the three companies to realize economies of scale
• It should conduct a pilot with regards to front end integration, to gauge customer response
• Even if it is not satisfactory, the client should consider incorporating a common loyalty program to improve customer loyalty , drive traffic across the three platforms, and create a rich 
database for targeted advertising, thereby improving advertisement revenue
Key Learnings:
• The scope of this case is extremely wide and thus the interviewee should ask if the focus needs to be on a specific aspect (Eg. Finances or operational synergies or risks and so on)
• Human resources and cultural integration is an important aspect to consider in mergers
Unconventional | E-commerce | Challenging
Financial Feasibility 
(Revenues)
Revenue from 
customers
Revenue from 
advertisers
No. of visitors     x     % converted       x    Trxns/Customer    x    Sales (INR)/trxn
Brand
Positioning
Promotional 
Mix
App Download
Website Hit
App UI
Website UI
Filter and 
Suggestion
Payment 
Mechanism
Loyalty 
Programs
Recommen
dation 
Systems
Cross –
generational 
Purchase
Product 
Bundles
Discounts
Apparel/
Non-Apparel
Branded/
Private Labels
No. of advertisers    x     Frequency    x      Impressions/ad     x     Price/Impression
# of visitors
Visibility of 
the ad
Relatability
Supply vs 
Demand
Targeted 
Advertising
Development and Maintenance of App
General Administration
Onboarding of Sellers
Order Processing
Logistics - From Seller to Warehouse
Logistics - From Warehouse to Customer
Warehousing
After Sale Service
Marketing
Costs & Operational 
Feasibility Risks Involved Risks Framework
External Internal
Competitor 
Response
Customer 
Preference
Political 
Backlash
Backlash
Technology
Legal Barriers
Environmental 
Issues
Reduce 
Margin/Cost
Substitute 
Complement
Support of 
Government
Failure
Freq. Changes
CCI 
New Laws
Tech 
Complements
Financial Operational
Employee
Cultural Misfit
Unethical Practices
Lack of Motivation
Economic 
Downturn
Click here for 
Panorama Report!
2024-2025 Page 201

===== PAGE 202 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Food delivery service provider – Interview Transcript
Unconventional | Food Delivery Service | Moderate
Sure. The client has seen a drop in its NPS ratings over a period of 3 months due to two major
reasons pertaining to 10% of the customers that live in a vicinity that is on the outskirts of Ahmedabad
city. The reasons are 1) packaging issues due to non reusable sustainable packaging used 2) bad
delivery partner behaviour due to long distance and inaccessibility of the locality on maps.
Okay, go ahead.
Considering this, I would like to segment my recommendations into two parts. Core
recommendations and peripheral recommendations in the short term as well as long term. The core
recommendations directly provide a potential solution to the problem at hand whereas the peripheral
recommendation suggests solutions to improve NPS.
Okay, go ahead
Okay, that makes sense. Is there any further implication to this? Or are there any ancillary issues
pertaining to this?
You can go ahead and summarise the case and provide recommendations
Unsatisfactory behaviour by delivery partners could be due to inability (say less training) or low
motivation (say, stress due to long time or distance or less resources to travel).
Yes, that is fair. You could say it is due to stress. The delivery partners generally get tired by travelling
longer distances. Also, this is a newly formed locality which does not have accurate geolocation on the
maps. This requires the delivery partner to spend extra time trying to locate the exact house. This
makes them impatient and hence, they seem to be slightly rude to the customers.
In the short term, core solutions could be to assign highly trained employees specifically to service
that locality and to specifically use reusable (possible non sustainable) packaging in the meantime to
address the spillage issue. In the long term, the core solution could be to work with the geolocation
agencies to improve the locality's mapping services and find sustainable reusable packaging alternatives,
if economically feasible.
What about the peripheral solutions?
In the short term, the food delivery partner can introduce discounts and promotions for customers in
that locality to retain customers and work on the personal grievance redressals of these customers on
priority. In the long term, the food delivery partner can roll out detailed guidelines for the behaviour
and sensitisation of delivery partners and redress all their grievances so that they are satisfied and
work with full motivation.
Alright. Let’s stop here. Well done. Thank you.
Sure. You can go ahead and analyze delivery partner behaviour.
Sure. Delivery partners or customers could raise delivery grievances. We would like to focus on
customer grievances since we are analysing the fall in NPS. The delivery issues from the customer’s
end could be related to the time taken, delivery mode or delivery partners' behaviour.
Yes, this specific locality is located on the outskirts of Ahmedabad and is quite far from most of the
restaurants located in the main city. Let's now move to the delivery aspect.
Let’s focus on the delivery and packaging aspects.
Sure. So, the customer may face packaging issues due to a change in the materials used. Do we know
whether the same material as earlier was used, or if there is any change? In case it is the same material
used, has any food type changed, is there any specific wastage/ spillage issue, or is there any specific
awareness/grievance around the sustainability of the packaging?
Yes, the client recently shifted to more sustainable packaging that is paper-based and not reusable.
This has aggrieved some customers. Especially the ones that live on the outskirts of Ahmedabad. It
takes longer to reach those areas and paper based packaging does not hold.
Sure. In the pre-ordering phase, I would look at aspects related to any change in awareness of the
app/website, availability of the application/ website, accessibility of the app, and any other technical or
UI/UX issues while using the app to order food.
Sure. This seems okay. You can go ahead and analyse the next phase.
Sure, From ordering to delivery, there could be grievances raised by restaurants, delivery partners or
customers. However, since we are focusing on NPS, I believe we would only focus on the customer
experience. Considering this, I would look at issues related to listing and variety of restaurants
available on the app, availability of information/ reviews, UI, UX and aesthetics, delivery and packaging
issues and payment issues. In the post-delivery phase, I would cover customer grievance redressal
issues.
Your client is a food delivery service provider, and they have seen their NPS fall from 7.5 to 6.7 in
Ahmedabad. The client wants you to understand the reasons and provide recommendations.
Sure. Firstly, I would like to understand the meaning of NPS and how it has been computed.
NPS is essentially the net promoter score, and here it refers to the market research done, where a
single survey question was asked – “Would you recommend this service to a friend?” The scale given
was from 1-10.
That helps. Was this survey rolled out to a sample population? Further, what was the time period of
this survey?
This survey was rolled out to existing customers in Ahmedabad over a period of 3 months.
Good question. No, the process to conduct the survey has not changed.
Okay, so I understand that the NPS is computed by aggregating the NPS scores received and dividing
them by the number of customers surveyed. Have there been any major outliers to the average NPS
this time or has there been any significant increase or decline in no. of customers surveyed?
The client has noticed some outlier low scores that pertain to 10% of the customers in Ahmedabad.
Oh Okay, to further understand these outliers, can they be categorized into any specific demographic,
geography or existing/ new customers?
Most of the outliers belong to specific locality of Ahmedabad.
Oh okay. Also, before I proceed I want to be sure that there was no change in the way the survey is
conducted and results analysed from the last survey to this right?
Okay, I will keep this in mind. Now, I would like to explore the different causes of concern that could
be prevalent. I think they could either relate to the company, competitors, or product/ service
experience.
You can explore the product and service experience further.
Sure. I would like to envision the customer’s journey and I will bifurcate it into 3 phases – 1) Pre
ordering 2) ordering to delivery 3) post delivery. Does that sound like a good approach?
Sure. Can you elaborate broadly what you would cover under each of these buckets?
That explains the specific 10% outliers of the customer segment. Does this segment have any specific
characteristic with respect to the locality as discussed earlier?
2024-2025 Page 202

===== PAGE 203 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Recommendations
• Core: 1) Short term: a) assign highly trained employees specifically to service that locality b) specifically use reusable (possibly non-sustainable) packaging to address the spillage issue.
2) Long-term: a) work with the geolocation agencies to improve the locality's mapping services b) find sustainable, reusable packaging alternatives, if economically feasible.
• Peripheral: 1) Short Term: a) introduce discounts and promotions for customers in that locality to retain customers b) work on the personal grievance redressals of these customers on priority. 
2) Long-term: a) roll out detailed guidelines for the behaviour and sensitisation of delivery partners and redress all their grievances so that they are satisfied and work with full motivation.
Key Learnings
• It is essential to understand the metric in question properly. Asking questions about the survey process and computation of metrics will make the analysis more holistic.
• Core recommendations and peripheral recommendations in the short term as well as the long term. The core recommendations directly provide a potential solution to the problem at hand, whereas 
the peripheral recommendation suggests solutions to improve NPS.
Your client is a food delivery service provider, and they have seen their NPS fall from 7.5 to 6.7 in Ahmedabad. The client wants you to understand the 
reasons and provide recommendations.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• It is important to understand 
the metric in question and 
the constituents of the 
metric.
• In case of a fall in metric, you 
can question whether the 
methodology of computing 
the metric has changed
• It is a good idea to ask if 
there were any outliers in 
this case – makes it easier to 
approach
• In case of familiar food 
delivery businesses, say 
Swiggy, think not only about 
ordering on the app but also 
the entire customer journey, 
including packaging, delivery 
and payments.
• Customer journey is 
generally a good way to go 
for service-based issues
• Joining all the dots together 
with respect to the smallest 
of information provided can 
open up the case sometimes.
Case Facts
• Fall in NPS due to 
extremely low ratings 
given by 10% of 
customers
• These customers live in 
a particular geography
• The focus is on the 
customer journey 
• Unlike typical app-based 
cases, the focus is on 
issues outside the app
• No competitive forces 
involved
• Both issues with respect 
to delivery and 
packaging are faced by 
the 10% of outlier 
customers
Fall in NPS
Change in 
survey 
process
Change due to 
outlier ratings
Product/ service 
experience Competitor
Ordering to 
delivery
Post 
delivery
Food delivery service provider – Interview Transcript
Unconventional | Food Delivery Service | Moderate
Company
Customers Restaurants, 
delivery partners
Listing and 
variety
Availability 
of info
UI/UX, 
aesthetics
Change in 
no. of 
customers
Pre 
ordering
change in 
awareness
Availability 
of app
Accessibility
UI/ UX
Delivery Packaging Payment
Grievance 
redressal
Change in 
material
Same 
material
Customers Delivery 
partners
Delivery 
mode
Time 
taken
Delivery partner 
behaviour
Ability
Motivation
Click here for 
Panorama Report!
2024-2025 Page 203

===== PAGE 204 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Close. N-Mart's sales are approximately 5 times that of the nearest competitor.
I would think that sales of that size give N-Mart significant clout with suppliers. Does it have a
lower cost of goods and hence lower prices than the competition?
In fact, its cost of goods is approximately 15 percent less than that of the competition and its
prices are on average about ten percent lower than those of the competition.
I think I've learned enough about N-Mart. I'd like to ask a few questions about N-Mart's ability
to succeed in the West. I’d first like to understand whether N-Mart has a strong brand name in
our market, and does it carry products similar to C-Mart’s?
N-Mart has no brand recognition in the West. The two companies carry similar products,
although the C-Mart stores lean more heavily toward local suppliers.
Is there any reason to think that the costs of doing business for N-Mart will be higher than
they are for C-Mart in the West? Specifically, is N-Mart likely to have higher labour costs,
leasing costs or higher raw material or distribution costs? N-Mart might incur higher
distribution costs than C-Mart because it will have to ship products from its Northern
warehouses to the West.
You are partially right. C-Mart must also cope with the same labor costs. C-Mart has the
advantage in distribution costs, since it gets more products from Western suppliers. However,
since C-Mart continues to get a good deal of product from the North, the actual advantage to
C-Mart is only about two percent of overall costs.
All this suggests that N-Mart will be able to retain a significant price advantage over C-Mart's
stores: if not ten percent, then at least seven to eight percent.
I would agree with that conclusion. Can you please summarize your findings?
In the near term, C-Mart might be safe. Its stores have a much stronger brand name in the
local market than N-Mart's, and they seem to be well managed. However, as consumers get
used to seeing prices that are consistently seven to eight percent lower at N-Mart, they are
likely to shift to N-Mart. The CEO certainly has to worry about losing significant share to N-
Mart stores in the long term.
Can you suggest possible strategies for C-Mart?
Given that in discount retailing competitive prices are a keyway to retain customers, C-Mart
can look at the value chain from procurement to distribution to retailing and see where it can
cut costs and hence offer more competitive pricing. In procurement, it can try negotiating
competitive prices with suppliers. It might want to consider offering fewer product lines, so
that it can consolidate buying power and negotiate prices with suppliers that are more
competitive. In distribution it could try cutting down on transportation costs. With retailing, it
can look to negotiate lower margins for retailers if possible. Finally, they might want to
consider instituting something like a frequent shopper program, where consumers accumulate
points that entitle them to future discounts on merchandise.
Thank you. All your suggestions are interesting and worth analysing further.
Your client, C-Mart is the largest discount grocery retailer in West India with 300 stores. For
several years, C-Mart has surpassed the second-largest retailer (200 stores) in both relative market
share and profitability. However, the largest discount grocery retailer in North India, N-Mart, has
just bought out C-Mart’s competitor and is planning to convert all 200 stores to N-Mart stores. The
CEO of C-Mart is perturbed by this turn of events, and asks you the following questions: Should I
be worried? How should I react? How would you advise the CEO?
This is how I would like to approach the problem: First, I’d like to understand the market in West
India to understand how C-Mart has become the market leader. Then I’d like to look at the market
in North India to understand how N-Mart has achieved its position. Finally, we can merge the two
discussions to understand whether N-Mart's strength in North is transferable to our market.
That sounds fine. Let’s start with our market.
I’d like to understand what is causing C-Mart’s higher profitability. Is C-Mart more profitable
because it has more stores, or does it have higher profits per store?
It has higher profits per store.
Higher profits could be the result of lower costs or higher revenues. Do we have any indication on
which of the two is causing the higher profits per store?
C-Mart's cost structure is similar to that of competitors, but it has higher per-store sales.
Higher per store sales could be because the prices are higher, or quantity sold per store is higher.
Since we are a discount retailer, our prices need to be competitive. Quantity sold per store is
higher. Can you think of why this could be the case?
This could be because our stores are larger, C-Mart has greater product variety or because the
stores are better managed.
Our store size is similar, and we sell similar products to competitors. C-Mart’s stores are managed
differently from those of competitors. C-Mart uses a franchise model in which each individual store
is owned and managed by a franchisee who has invested in the store and retains part of the profit.
In that case, I would guess that the C-Mart stores are probably better managed, since the individual
storeowners have a greater incentive to maximize profit.
You are right. C-Mart's higher sales are primarily due to a higher level of customer service. The
stores are cleaner, more attractive, better stocked, and so on. I think you've sufficiently covered the
Western market - let's move now to a discussion of the North Indian market.
How many stores does N-Mart own in the North, and how many does its closest competitor own?
N-Mart owns 2,000 stores and its largest competitor owns approximately 500 stores.
Are N-Mart stores bigger than those of its competitors?
Yes. N-Mart stores average 20,000 square feet, whereas competitor stores are 10,000 square feet.
This suggests that N-Mart should be selling almost 8 times the volume of the nearest competitor.
Threat of new entrant – Interview Transcript
Unconventional | Retail | Challenging
2024-2025 Page 204

===== PAGE 205 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Approach/ Framework Interviewee Notes
• Understand C-Mart’s 
competitive advantage (in 
terms of profitability)
• Understand N-Mart’s 
competitive advantage
• Can N-Mart’s competitive 
advantage be transferred 
to West?
• C-Mart has 300 stores 
compared to nearest 
competitor’s 200 stores
• N-Mart has 2,000 stores 
compared to its nearest 
competitors 500 stores
• N-Mart sales are 5x that 
of nearest competitor
Case Facts
• C-Mart: market leader in West
• N-Mart: market leader in 
North 
• C-Mart: no cost advantage
• C-Mart: franchise model –
better managed – higher sales 
• N-Mart: large bargaining power 
with supplier 
The Leading discount grocery retailer in West India is facing the threat of a new entrant  
C-Mart's 
advantage
More stores More profit per 
store
Higher revenue 
per store
More variety Higher prices Better Managed 
Lower cost per 
store
N-Mart's 
advantage
More stores More profit per store
Higher revenue 
per store
Lower cost per store 
because of lower raw 
material prices
Procurement Distribution Retail
Strategies for 
cost reduction 
Threat of new entrant
The Leading discount grocery retailer in West India is facing the threat of a new entrant
Recommendations
• It is important to cut costs to compete with N-Mart
• Costs can be cut in 
- Procurement: Negotiate lower prices with suppliers  
- Distribution: Cut transportation costs  
- Retail: lower retailer margins and introduce loyalty programme
Suggestions/Observations
• An alternative approach would be to divide the threat of new entrant into the following buckets- Scale economies, product differentiation, brand identity, switching cost, access to 
distribution channels/raw material/technology, capital requirements and Government protection  
Key Learnings
• Evaluating competitive advantage and response; also can take a value chain 
approach to identify advantage across the chain
• Learning the nuances of the retail market (Revenue/profit per store)
Unconventional | Retail | Challenging
Click here for 
Panorama Report!
2024-2025 Page 205

===== PAGE 206 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Petrol Pump Loyalty Card – Interview Transcript
Unconventional | Petrol Pump | Challenging | Partner Case | McKinsey
Your client is in the business of petrol pumps in India. It had recently introduced a loyalty card to
retain more customers, but it hasn’t performed as per expectations. It wants you to give
recommendations to improve the attractiveness of the loyalty program.
Thank you for the case. First, I would like to ask a few preliminary questions to understand the
client better and analyse why has the loyalty card not performed well.
We already know the reason. The customers are not finding the value of the gifts that are
redeemed attractive enough. You can ask preliminary questions to understand the client.
Is it a single petrol pump or a chain of petrol pumps? Do we know the location? Also, my
understanding by petrol pump dealer is that their only responsibility is to manage the petrol pump
hence they are not involved in refining. They procure petrol directly from refineries and are not
involved in transporting process as well.
Assume it to be a single petrol pump located in any tier 1 city. That's the only city they operate in.
I’d now want to understand how the entire mechanism of loyalty card works. Is it used to pay for
petrol or is it like Spencer’s loyalty card wherein points are credited to the card. In that case, how
many points are credited for each transaction?
You cannot pay using the card. One point is credited for every Rs. 100 spent at the petrol pump.
And what is the value of each point? Also, how, when and where can the points be redeemed?
Each point is worth 50 paise hence 2 points are worth One Rupee. The points can be redeemed
once 200 points are accumulated. The customer can visit the petrol pump to redeem against a
catalogue of products that includes things like Boat earphones, steel water bottles, and so on.
How is the competition? I feel that it is a very competitive industry and customers are indifferent
between the petrol pumps. Also, has any competitor also launched any loyalty programs?
Since the pump is in city, there are multiple pumps near client’s pump. The client is the first one to
implement a loyalty program.
Okay. May I please take a few minutes to structure my thoughts?
Sure, please take your time.
Since our objective is to make the card more attractive, we can look at ways to either increase
the value derived from the card or improve the convenience through changes in process. Hence, I
would structure the case by looking at the customer journey and try to find ways to increase
attractiveness. The customer journey would broadly have 3 parts – Issuance of card, credit of
points and redemption of points. Should I go ahead?
That sounds good. Please go ahead!
In issuance, I would look at the process of issuing the card which would include convenience and
the fees charged for the card. Looking at the process first, do we know how many forms a
customer must fill for issuance of card, number of days it takes for the card to be issued and is the
card linked to the mobile number?
There are 2 forms involved. After receipt of the forms, it takes 14 days to issue a card which the
customer must collect from the petrol pump. It is not linked to the mobile number.
Okay. And does the client charge any issuance fees as well as annual fees for the card?
Yes, the client charges a nominal fees of Rs. 100 as issuance fees to recover the processing and
the card costs.
So, my recommendations would be to transform the issuance process to link the loyalty program
with the customer’s mobile no. The client should ask for the customer’s mobile number and the
customer will be enrolled in the loyalty program with an OTP. This means no forms, immediate
onboarding and no need to visit within 2 weeks to collect the card. Since this will eliminate the
processing & card costs, the client can waive off the Rs. 100 issuance fees as well. Is this feasible?
Should I look at ways of transitioning existing customers to mobile based system from cards.
Yes, this is a good suggestion. The client will implement this. You can ignore the transition
process.
For credit of points, I will again look at the process first and then the value of the points being
credited. Since we followed a card-based system earlier, I am assuming that the client had to swipe
the card after every transaction. Also, is there a possibility to increase the number of points
credited for each transaction?
Correct. The client is open to increasing the value of points marginally.
After implementing mobile-based program, the points can be automatically credited by adding
details of the cars to mobile number. This would lead to improve in efficiency at the petrol pump
as well as higher customer convenience. The client can give additional points if certain milestones
are reached for e.g., visiting >1 every month for 6 consecutive months, >25000 in a year, etc.
Good point.
Now moving to the most important part of the analysis: redemption. We can break it down into 3
parts: process, value and variety. I would further divide process into access and restrictions. Since
we already know that customer needs to visit the pump to redeem points, we can introduce an
online option which would make the process easier. To further incentivize the access, we can
partner with other petrol pump dealers around 25 KMs to be a part of this program. We also
know that the minimum points required to redeem is 200 points. To earn 200 points, customer
needs to purchase petrol of Rs. 20,000 which can be a big amount for 2 wheelers and non-regular
users. Hence, I’d recommend to remove the restriction of minimum points to redeem.
Okay.
I would split value into actual value and perceived value. To increase the actual value of points
without a corresponding increase in costs for the client, the following 3 things can be explored:
• Tie ups with Fintechs – The client can tie up with fintech companies like Paytm and Stripe to
issue co-branded digital cards powered by mobile numbers.
• Partner with D2C brands – Cost of acquisition of D2C brands are relatively high. Giving
customers an option to redeem points on their products would save the D2C brands money
• Vouchers – Partner with brands like Amazon, Swiggy, etc. to redeem points against their
vouchers.
The client can pass on the benefit from all the above partnerships to the customers leading to
higher value of points. E.g., Stripe can waive off the surcharge on payments and the cashback can
be passed on. Similarly, Swiggy might charge the client Rs. 400 for a voucher of Rs. 500 thus client
can let customers redeem Rs. 500 voucher for 800 points instead of 1000.
These are interesting observations. How do you improve the perceived value?
We can introduce either nostalgic products or novel products. Nostalgic products could be
phantom cigarettes. Example of novel products could be Mahabaleshwar strawberries in Mumbai
(assumed pump is in Mumbai) or Kitkat chocolate by Hershey’s which is available only in USA.
Very interesting.
The client can increase the variety by:
• Introducing products of lower value like stationary items since the minimum points restriction
would be scrapped
• Petrol Pump – Allow points to be redeemed at the petrol pump itself. It could be done by
either redeeming against petrol pump or non-monetary benefits like priority lines
• Product Portfolio – Partnering with D2C brands, vouchers, and onboarding more merchants
We will convey all the recommendation to the client. Thank you!
2024-2025 Page 206

===== PAGE 207 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Recommendations
• Introduce mobile based loyalty system instead of card based
• Waive all kinds of processing fees and costs to customers
• Remove minimum points criteria and give additional points for consistent/large customers
• Onboard fintech, D2C, other merchants
• Allow redemption at petrol pump – both monetary and non-monetary benefits 
Key Learnings
• It is important to apply structure even in unconventional and unstructured cases
• Important to demonstrate on the feet and out of the box thinking while solving unconventional cases
Your client is in the business of petrol pumps in India. It had recently introduced a loyalty card to retain more customers but it hasn’t performed as per 
expectations. It wants you to give recommendations to improve the attractiveness of the loyalty program.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Do not start giving 
recommendation. Try to 
split the steps through 
MECE. In such cases, 
using the journey of 
customer is mostly a 
good idea.
• Enquire about location, 
number of pumps, and 
competition.
• Spend time on 
understanding on how the 
entire process works 
right from issuance to 
credit to redemption.
• Also understand what 
options a customer has 
during redemption and 
what is the value of points 
in Rupee terms.
Case Facts
• The reason of the 
problem is already 
available – lack of 
attractiveness
• Final value of 
redemption for every 
Rupee spent is 0.50% 
of money spent (1 
point for Rs. 100 –
redeem for 50 Paise 
value)
• Loyalty Card is the 
medium through 
which points are 
credited and 
redeemed
Loyalty Card
Issuance Redemption
Value
Process Value
Petrol Pump Loyalty Card
Process
Actual PerceivedRestriction
Credit
Process Fees
Variety
Access
Petrol 
Pump
Minimum 
value
ProductsD2CFintech Vouchers NovelNostalgic
Unconventional | Petrol Pump | Challenging | Partner Case | McKinsey
Click here for:  
Panorama Report 1
Panorama Report 2
2024-2025 Page 207

===== PAGE 208 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Okay, consider the following scenario: The client has decided to provide monetary incentive in
terms of direct transfer of $2 per month to students. The total budget for this is $170 Million.
There are 4 Million students in rural areas, 3.5 Million in Semi-Urban areas, and 2.5 Million in
Urban areas. How will you carry out this policy?
Level of Educational Achievement – Interview Transcript
Unconventional | Education Policy | Moderate
Okay. Since I believe differentiation in monetary transfers in a single geography might cause
dissent, we can remove the urban areas from this scheme. We can carry it out for the other two
areas for 11 months, assuming 1 month of summer break. Does this seem like a fair approach?
Yes, absolutely!
Great, so now I would like to look at how to implement the policy. Here, I would look at
disbursement mechanisms and student selection. In disbursement mechanisms, the ideal way is to
deposit money straight to the bank accounts of the students’ parents. This would reduce
corruption possibilities and be highly efficient. In case of non-existence of records or bank
accounts, a school-wise disbursement can occur, wherein each school is transferred money
monthly to disburse cash to students. Another approach is through the Public Distribution
System, wherein parents get money with monthly rations, ID being done through ration cards.
For selection, strict attendance requirements, say 75% must be met to be eligible for the transfer.
This can also be supplemented through monetary rewards for the top performing students.
Do you see any problem with the suggested disbursement mechanism?
Alternate income streams would include CSR and donations, advertisements on school walls/
equipment.
Selection can be done based on the attendance level of students, level of achievement or partial
implementation in certain geographies. For the third option, do we have data of differences in
grades or attendance across geographies?
Yes. Urban areas have the maximum grades and attendance due to lower child labour. 10% of the
students are regularly absent, compared to ~25% in rural and semi-urban areas.
After a quick calculation- in case we give $2 per month to every student, the budget would last
us less than 9 months. Is it possible to reduce the transfer amount per student or shall I proceed
with the prospects of alternate revenue streams and selection mechanism for students to receive
the transfer?
The transfer per students can’t be reduced. Let’s look deeper into the other two aspects.
Yes, there are multiple avenues for corruption in non-digital channels. To overcome this, there
should be a requirement of maintenance of attendance and disbursement records, submitted
periodically to a central commission. Additionally, periodic surprise checks can be conducted to
gauge the actual attendance and achievement levels in schools.
Correct, is there anything regarding the policy that you’d like to change?
Yes. The policy acts as a good stopgap measure for increasing attendance in schools. However, it
fails to have any long-term consequences. In the long run, we should try to eradicate the root
cause, i.e. child labour, which would be solved through increasing the household income with
more stable job opportunities, and stricter enforcement of the rule. Additionally, awareness
seminars can be conducted with parents, and job guarantees can be provided for those who have
graduated from school with certain grades to increase attendance and performance levels.
Moreover, even with 75% of the students attending schools, only 25% are at the grade level,
indicating a low teaching quality, or a sub-standard curriculum. Both need to be assessed for
sustainable improvement in achievement. The client can also look at other educational avenues
such as skill development courses for students (like ITIs in India), that can ensure a respectable
livelihood straight out of such institutes for students. Prospect of employment straight after
graduation is a major motivator for disciplined attendance of students.
Alright. Let’s stop here. Well done. Thank you.
Absolutely. Let's look deeper into incentivizing attendance. How would you go about it?
I would look at providing both- monetary and non-monetary incentives. Monetary incentives can
be based on attendance metrics and marks, non-monetary incentives can include providing free
meals, transport services, increased infrastructure at school, and the like.
Sure! Since child labour is prevalent in underdeveloped areas, sending children to school would
remove that income the child earned for that family. This can lead to low enrolment rates, as well
as high absenteeism, wherein children are missing a few days to earn money. Absenteeism is
negatively correlated to achievement level and class performance. Does this seem like the correct
approach?
Yes. Absenteeism is the main issue that results in low level of educational achievement. Can you
suggest some ways to overcome this?
Definitely. I can look at two possible ways to do this, first is incentivizing attendance or
educational achievement, the second is to enforce stricter child labour norms. Considering it is an
underdeveloped South Asian province, the latter seems unfeasible in the short term.
Your client is a newly appointed Governor of a province in a South Asian country. One of his key
objectives is developing the Education system of the province and wants your advise on the same.
What does the client mean by developing the education system of the province? Is it about
increasing enrolment rate and decreasing dropouts and absenteeism or about increasing the
quality of students in terms of the grades they achieve? Is there any time frame for the same?
The client wants to maximise the level of educational achievement, measured by students
performing at grade level. The client wants to see concrete improvements in 5-7 years.
Okay, I have a few questions. Firstly, is there any national policy framework that the Governor
must adhere with? Secondly, what kind of province is it in terms of development? Thirdly, should
the policy be targeted towards public schools or both public and private schools?
There are 8-10 Million students in public school, with around 25% of them meeting expectations.
There is no difference in metrics between genders. Teacher-student ratio is 1 teacher per 30
students, with teachers mostly well qualified.
Okay, I think I have got all the information I needed. The number of teachers is not a problem.
Now, I would like to look further into the reason behind such a low achievement level. In this, I
would divide the factors affecting achievement into two factors- inside the school factors, and
outside the school factors. The former would include curriculum and infrastructure factors, the
latter includes outside factors that affect a student’s academic factors. Does this seem like a fair
approach?
Yes, can you elaborate on the outside school factors?
Good questions. You can ignore any limitations imposed by the central government. Focus on
only public schools for this case. The province is largely underdeveloped, and a traditional area.
Okay. Further, do we have any data on the number of students enrolled in public schools, and the
percentage that meet expectations? Are there any gender-based difference in enrolment and
achievement? Additionally, what is the teacher-student ratio in these schools, since that is a major
factor contributing to level of achievement.
Yes, these can be bucketed into 4 factors: Awareness, Accessibility, Affordability, and home
conditions. Awareness would include the level of awareness one has regarding the benefits of
attending school and job opportunities afterwards, accessibility is about how accessible is attending
the school for a student, which will impact the attendance rates. In affordability, there would be
metrics such as cost of uniforms, books and tuition (if these are borne by students) and the
opportunity cost- in case of child labour. Home conditions would largely be motivation by parents
for studying, as well as basic home stability. Does this seem comprehensive?
Yes! The students are not required to pay any fee for uniforms, books or tuition. However, 
opportunity cost seems to be a major problem in the province, can you elaborate further?
2024-2025 Page 208

===== PAGE 209 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Recommendations
• Short term: a) Awareness sessions for parents to highlight the importance of education, including career prospects and potential earnings.
• Long term:  a) Change in curriculum and teaching quality to increase level of achievement. This is a problem because out of those attending, only a minority are at grade level in terms of learnings
b) Remove child labour through stricter enforcement and increasing earning capacity of parents through upskilling + higher demand for workforce
c) Increase in skill based courses, following the model of ITIs in India. This entails basic skills like carpentering, plumbing, etc. which can ensure earning potential post graduation.
Key Learnings
• It is important to understand the objective and the existing scenario. It is imperative to get to the root cause through dire cted questions, rather than assuming the cause. 
• Observation skills are required in case interviews. It is important to note down the pros and cons of anything the interviewe r states to fetch brownie points.
• Such cases are meant to test comprehensiveness of the candidate. It is imperative to focus on first principles and think abou t the customer (student) journey while applying frameworks.
Your client is a newly appointed Governor of a province in a South Asian country. One of his key objectives is developing the Education system of
the province and wants your advise on the same.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• It is important to 
understand the objective of 
the client i.e. what do they 
mean by developing the 
Education system?
• Try to understand the 
existing condition through 
specific questions regarding 
the level of achievement, 
enrolment, teacher-student 
ratio, etc.
• Try to make broad 
frameworks to encompass 
every possible factor.
• Check the financial 
possibility of any decision in 
case the budget is given.
Case Facts
• Issue is with quality of 
students, not 
enrolment rates.
• The province is largely 
underdeveloped
• No issues in teacher-
student ratio.
• Issue of attendance 
levels- largely in rural 
and semi-urban areas.
• No accessibility issues, 
schools are widely 
present.
• Issue with low family 
incomes, forcing 
children into child 
labour and reducing 
their attendance, 
grades. 
• Policy to transfer 
money for attendance 
levels, limited budget. 
Develop Education 
System
Quantity of Students 
(enrolment, etc.)
Outside School
Affordability Awareness
Opportunity 
Cost
School 
related costs
Level of Educational Achievement
Page 209
Accessibility
Absenteeism Low 
Enrolment
Incentivise 
Attendance
Reduce 
Child Labour
Non-monetary
Monetary
Condition 
at Home
Lack of Budget
Inside School
Level of Achievement 
(Quality)
Reduce 
Incentive
Other Revenue 
Sources
Selected 
Dispersal
Attendance 
level
Achievement 
levelGeography
Direct to Bank
Indirect - Offline 
Means
Disbursement 
Method
Unconventional | Education Policy | Moderate
2024-2025

===== PAGE 210 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Retail Chain – Interview Transcript
Digital Transformation | Retail | Moderate
Your client is a traditional big-box retail chain in India, looking to improve its business with the help of
a digital transformation. They need your advice on how to go about the same.
Alright. Do they have a specific objective for this transformation? Why did they think about digital
transformation specifically and is there any reason why they are exploring it now?
They want to improve their competitiveness overall. They are a traditional chain with limited tech
usage so far. With competition intensifying in the sector, they are exploring if leveraging tech can help.
Makes sense. I would like to know a bit more about the client. What categories do they operate in &
which consumer segments do they target? What is their scale of operations & geographical spread?
The client has 25 stores in cities across northern India. They sell grocery & homecare alongside some
apparel, similar to D-mart but smaller, with a lower middle-class and middle-class consumer base.
Okay. Digital transformation can be broadly performed at 3 levels:
1) Transforming the business model itself, such as through an ecommerce foray
2) Digitising the operating model within the same business
3) Augmenting specific operating processes within the existing operating model
Do we know what scope of transformation the client is looking for?
Yes. They are looking for wider transformation beyond just individual processes. So, the operating
model will get changed, but they do not want to alter their business model as such.
In that case, we can bucket the client’s operational areas into primary operations & support activities.
Since competitiveness is the objective, I’ll start with the primary operations. For a retailer, these
would broadly comprise planning, buying, moving, selling, & servicing.
Sounds reasonable. You can ignore the servicing part – our client does not have much activity there.
Got it. Now, the assortment & mix planning process would comprise pricing intelligence, demand
forecasting, & promotion planning. How does the client execute these activities at present?
Planning is largely manual. The client has on-ground pricing executives who gather data on market
rates. This is fed back to a central team that then sets prices & plans promotions. Demand is
forecasted using market trends & time series data.
Given the manual process, I would infer that planning is done at a periodic cadence given the time
required for data collection, collation & analysis. So, the client slightly lags the market. Is that correct?
They do their planning weekly or fortnightly depending on the product category. But yes, it does
create some lag, especially for categories with fluctuating prices or heavy competition.
In that case, I feel implementing an analytics platform for merchandising could help the client with
revenue growth through 3 factors:
1) Real-time pricing & promotions, by cutting the time cycle for data collection, collation & analysis.
2) Predictive intelligence: Rather than manually finding a suitable response to the market, the engine
can provide a buffet of pricing strategy options for the client to preempt the market.
3) Labour allocation: Freeing up & upgrading labour from clerical tasks to pure-play planning &
analysis, especially on more qualitative factors like consumer behaviour & promotion design.
Fair enough. How would you analyse the buying side?
Buying comprises of vendor management and the actual procurement. The former is largely qualitative
entailing vendor identification, negotiation, & lifecycle/relationship management. How does the client
currently go about its vendor management & procurement?
They have multiple vendors across the nation per category and negotiate separate contracts with
each. Vendor management & order placement happens manually through procurement managers.
In that case, there could be 2 opportunities to explore:
1) Vendor management platform for both managers & vendors, enabling cost-savings through
efficiency. It can support managers like a CRM system & automate the order placement process.
Vendors can use it to track orders raised, manage billing, and resolve issues quickly.
2) Analytics solution for managers to get a better view of inventory requirements across categories &
vendors. This could improve the client’s bargaining power through consolidation of orders.
Moving on to supply chain, how does the client currently manage warehousing & logistics? Is it facing
any issues in inventory management?
The client has its own warehouses but outsources transportation. Inventory is managed through paper
trails & emails, while transportation is coordinated by a central team liasing with the vendor &
respective warehouses. This does cause miscommunication, problems locating inventory, & delays.
The issues seem to stem from two interlinked fronts: tracking inventory & managing communication
across supply chain stakeholders. As such, the client should consider an inventory management system
integrating 2 solutions:
1) Centralized tracking of inventory across warehouses, stores & in transit, replacing the paper trail
system. It will need barcode scanners & digitized invoicing on the ground, and can be
interconnected with the billing module of the vendor management system.
2) Dedicated communications system for coordination, with real-time dashboarding & notifications to
all appropriate parties.
Together, these should minimize the time taken for inventory to go from vendor to store and thereby
reduce the inventory volume that needs to be held, saving both inventory holding & logistics costs.
A 3rd solution many retailers are presently exploring is automated warehouses with robotics and IoT.
However, given our client’s modest scale & limited prior experience with tech, I feel this would not
yield benefits at this stage and should be avoided.
That’s a good observation. What else would you look at?
The final stage in the client’s value chain is selling. Taking a customer’s journey in the store, I would
bucket it into visual merchandising, pricing & promotions delivery, customer experience services, and
PoS systems. How is the client currently doing on these fronts?
They have backend systems for visual merchandising and PoS is digitized. Pricing & promotions reach
the store by email & are displayed using placards. There is nothing specific on customer experience.
Fair enough. Visual merchandising & PoS seem to be at par with the competition. Both pricing &
promotions and customer experience have limited need for digitization given the client operates in
brick-&-mortar grocery & their consumer base is low-mid income. However, they can explore
creating an app where customers can check item availability, get personalized promotions & discounts,
and even place orders, similar to a buy online pick in-store service (BOPIS). The client in turn gets
better analytics & can deploy loyalty schemes more effectively in a commoditized market.
That’s an interesting idea. You’ve suggested several solutions so far. Suppose the client decides to go
ahead with the transformation, how would you recommend them to prioritise the deployment?
I would majorly look at three factors: the likely return on investment of the initiative, the timeframe
needed for implementation, and any interdependencies between systems.
Given COGS & supply chain costs are 2 of the chief cost heads for a retailer, I would expect
improvement here to yield high ROI. CRM, analytics, and SCM systems are also available off-the shelf,
so deployment shouldn’t take much time. They can be deployed in parallel as there are no
dependencies.
Once supply chain is digitized, merchandising analytics should be deployed. This will help on the
revenue front but won’t be effective until supply chain is efficient.
Finally, the app should be the last since it’s return is dependent on consumers’ response & it will take
significant time to build & integrate with existing operations.
Alright, that will be it. Thank you.
Page 2102024-2025

===== PAGE 211 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Interviewee Notes
• Digital transformation can 
be implemented at 3 levels 
of scope: transform 
business model, transform 
operating model, or 
improve individual 
processes.
• COGS & supply chain are 
two of the major cost heads 
for a retailer.
• Robotics/IoT is the trend in 
supply chain & retail. But,
may not be useful here –
client has modest scale & 
limited tech familiarity.
Case Facts
• Client: Big-box retailer with 
limited tech usage
• Client has 25 stores across 
North India.
• They sell groceries & other 
everyday consumer products, 
like D-Mart.
• Consumer base is lower 
middle class and middle-class 
populations.
• Focus on improving 
competitiveness
• Assortment & mix planning is 
manually done.
• Multiple vendors per product 
category, and separate 
contracts with each vendor. 
Process is currently manual.
• Has own warehouses but 
transportation outsourced. 
Frequent delays & 
coordination issues.
• PoS is digitised, but remaining 
sell-side activities are manual. 
Limited customer experience 
features. 
• Minimal services presence.
Key Learnings
• As this was an open-ended case, getting the scope of the transformation clearly defined is important
• The candidate created a structure for analysis before asking exploratory questions to assess each individual bucket
• Not all upgrades or trends may be useful for a given client, hence, explicitly select solutions that are relevant, value-adding and feasible given the client’s context
• Candidate was able to bring in comprehensiveness and useful recommendations through understanding of retail’s business model and awareness of major trends like omni-channel retail and supply chain automation
Your client is a big box retail chain looking to improve their business through digital transformation.
Digital Transformation | Retail | Moderate
Retail Chain
Approach/ Framework
Digital 
Transformation 
Return on 
Investment
Time Needed for 
Implementation Inter-dependencies
Business Model 
Redesign
Operating Model 
Redesign
Process 
Improvement
Primary Operations Support Activities
Plan
(Assortment & Mix) Buy Move Sell Service
Pricing 
Intelligence
Demand 
Forecasting
Promotion 
Planning
Vendor 
Management
Inventory 
Procurement
Warehousing
Transportation
Visual 
Merchandising
Pricing & Promo. 
Delivery
Customer 
Experience
PoS Systems
Implementation 
Prioritisation
Click here for 
Panorama Report!
2024-2025 Page 211

===== PAGE 212 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Sure, the Outbound Logistics component can be broken down into Order Reception, Processing and
Transportation. Before I proceed further, I would like to understand the distribution structure of our
client. Could you please give me some insights about this?
Alright! Our client services its end customers through Retailers who stock our client’s products.
Super-Stockists across India place orders from our client and purchase goods. Super-Stockists in turn
service Distributors who in turn service Retailers. There are on-ground salespeople employed by the
client who drive sales at each of the above steps.
Sure! In this case, since we have full control over downstream distribution process, we can adopt a
digital order taking process. We can digitally monitor the stock of the end product which we have in
our warehouse. Therefore, we can ask push all of our Super-Stockists to place orders through our
website (digital platform). Does this seem okay?
Yes, it does! Please continue.
After we receive the orders, we can optimally route the order to the nearest unit i.e. our own
manufacturing facility in Nagpur or any other CMU such that the order servicing costs are minimized.
While the manufacturing costs might be lower in the Nagpur plant, the logistics costs might be higher
as compared to CMUs, as the CMUs might be closer to the Super-Stockist.
This is good. However, the on-ground salespeople drive both Primary Sales (Sales to Distributors) and
Secondary Sales (Sales to Retailers). Could you please highlight how this could be digitally monitored?
Got it! The major aim of the salespeople is to visit different outlets and sell the products, right? I can
think of three different use cases: Pre-visit, During-visit and Post-visit.
In the Pre-visit use case, the route taken by the salespeople could be optimized to have the greatest
revenue impact. Outlets close to each other have to be tagged to the same salesperson to reduce
costs. Also, the purchase data of the previous months of the same outlet could be presented to the
salesperson via an app, to aid their pitch.
During the visit, the time taken by the salesperson in each outlet could be benchmarked with other
colleagues to design better incentive structures. The salesforce effectiveness is something which could
be monitored.
Post the visit, real time data can be captured from the salespeople to understand the latest trends in
the market, which could be used to estimate demand and also engage in NPDs. This will also help the
client track the inventory at the different levels of the supply chain.
Perfect, this has been very insightful. One final question, any suggestion for the client to create new
sales channels?
Hmmm, the client can create a website to enter into the D2C segment. They can also enter the B2B
segment by getting into HoReCa.
Thanks a lot! We can end the case here!
Your client is an Indian FMCG Company specializing in Salty Snacks. They have approached you to
transform themselves digitally. Suggest a suitable strategy for them.
Thank You for the Problem Statement. I would like to collect my thoughts and ask a few
preliminary questions. What exactly do you mean by Salty Snacks? What is their product portfolio?
The client is a market leader in the Indian and Western Salty Snacks industry. They make a wide
range of products such as Traditional Indian Snacks also called ‘Namkeen’ (like Aloo Bhujia and
Masala Peanuts), Potato Wafers and Extruded Snacks (like Kurkure Sticks and Corn Puffs).
Alright! Which part of India do they operate from? Which all regions do they serve?
The client has retail presence all across India except a few regions like Northeast India, Kerala and
Gujarat, which are predominantly served by local players. The client has its manufacturing facility in
in Nagpur but has tied up with Contract Manufacturing Units (CMUs) in other parts of the country
from where they serve the remaining regions.
Okay! What is the predominant cost of their packet? Do they specialize in Rs. 5 or Rs. 10 Packs or
are they only make large case?
How is this relevant to our problem statement? To answer you, they don’t specialize in any size and
their SKUs are priced right from Rs. 5 for a 20g Pack to Rs. 60 for a 300g Pack.
Thanks for this information. I would like to know more about their current levels of digitization and
automation. Also, is there any particular functional area on which I should focus?
Yes, I would like you to look at this problem from an Operations lens. Their manufacturing facility is
fully automated. No other aspect of operations has been digitally transformed.
One final question. How much are they willing to spend on this digital transformation exercise?
What is the time horizon they have in mind for these investments? This will help me evaluate my
suggestions accordingly.
They are willing to spend roughly upto Rs. 25 Cr (~1% of their Annual Revenue) for this
transformation exercise, over a period of 24 months.
Sure, I would begin by analyzing the Value Chain of our client’s operations. First, I would like to
focus on the Inbound Logistics. Then, I would move to the subsequent stages such as Manufacturing,
Outbound Logistics, Marketing and Sales. Does this seem fine?
Yes, this is okay. But we can skip Manufacturing as it has already been fully automated.
Sure! Inbound Logistics can be broken down into Order Placement, Transportation and Receiving
the Goods and Inventory Management at the manufacturing facility. The in-house warehouse could
be digitally managed. Whenever fresh stock comes into the warehouse or leaves the warehouse for
manufacturing, it could be scanned by a barcode reader to track the stock left in the warehouse.
This could help in keeping track of the remaining stock. This could then be leveraged to digitally
place an order with the vendor, saving time and money. Should I delve deeper into my analysis?
No, this is good enough. Just one point to note is that it may not be feasible to digitally place the
order as it is dependent on the technical capabilities of the upstream vendor, which is not in our
control. You may now proceed to Outbound Logistics.
Digital Transformation of an FMCG Client – Interview Transcript
Digital Transformation | FMCG | Moderate
2024-2025 Page 212

===== PAGE 213 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Approach / FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Client wants to digitally 
transform their 
operations.
• They are willing to spend 
upto Rs. 25 Cr. within the 
next 24 months.
• Using the value chain 
framework might be a 
good idea.
Case Facts
• The client is the market leader in 
the Indian Salty Snacks industry.
• Their manufacturing facility is 
automated, but the other aspects 
of operations are not digitally 
transformed yet.
• The client manufactures in its 
own facilities as well as through 
CMUs (Contract Manufacturing 
Units)
Your client is an Indian FMCG Company specializing in Salty Snacks. Suggest a suitable Digital Transformation strategy for them.
Key Learnings
• The case threw light on the different processes involved in FMCG operations
• The Sales & Distribution structure of Indian FMCG Companies was thoroughly highlighted
• Nuances regarding the control (or lack of control) in the upstream and downstream process were highlighted
2024-2025
Digital Transformation of an FMCG Client
Digital Transformation | FMCG | Moderate
Inbound Logistics Manufacturing Outbound 
Logistics Sales & Marketing
Order 
Placement
Transportation
Goods 
Reception
Inventory 
Management
Order 
Reception
Processing
Transportation
Pre-Visit
During-Visit
Post-Visit
Manufacturer Super-Stockist Distributor Retailer
Click here for 
Panorama Report!
Page 213

===== PAGE 214 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a major Oil & Gas player. They were going to expand their refining capacity by Dec
2023. However, due to policy changes and competitive pressure, they now want to do it by Dec
2022.
Can you tell me a little more about the client – which part(s) of the Oil & Gas industry does it
operate in? – Only downstream or midstream and upstream as well? What is the geographical
footprint of the company?
It is an Indian public sector player operating primarily in the downstream segment.
I see. What is the current refining capacity and refinery wise-split of the company? What is the
targeted capacity?
Their current capacity is 15 MMTPA of crude oil processed split between two refineries – 10
MMTPA and 5 MMTPA. They want to expand their 5 MMTPA plan to 12 MMTPA.
Interesting. So, am I correct to assume that our objective is to help the client shorten the
expansion project completion time from Dec 2023 to Dec 2022, i.e., shorten it by a year?
Yes, that’s correct.
Okay. I would like to propose an overall strategy here. First, I want to understand the current
status and map out the proposed phase-wise timeline. Then we can proceed to analyzing the time
proposed for each step and the sequencing to identify possibilities for crashing the processes.
Finally, we can look at the risks and additional finances, if any, associated with the schedule and
possible measure to prevent and mitigate the challenges in case of a delay.
That seems reasonable. Go ahead.
Great. I would like to first look at all the inputs and setup requirements for the expansion plan.
Mainly I would want to focus on capital requirements, licenses and permissions, raw material
inputs like crude oil supply and land acquisition. Next, I would want to look at the design and
planning phase. Herein, I would want to focus on the design process and timelines, tendering
process (as applicable), After that, we can look at the equipment procurement, construction and
installation phase. Finally, ways to expedite the testing and inspection phase can be looked at. Did
I get the stages correctly or is there anything that I missed?
That seems a good approach. So, we know that the main reactor takes the maximum time, which
is, 3 years, for fabrication and delivery. No other equipment takes more than 2 years for the
same.
Interesting. Can we ask the EPC to prioritize the design of the reactor? If yes, by when can we
expect them to deliver the same? Additionally, what would be the cost implications of the same?
The EPC can deliver the reactor design in 1 month. Do not worry about the costs.
Great. That should crash our project time by 5 months as all other equipment will anyhow take
less than 2 years post the commissioning. Is that correct?
Yes, that can be done. Let’s move on to the next phase.
I would like to understand the fabrication and delivery process better. My current understanding
is that once the designs from the EPC are received, a tender would be floated for the fabrication
of the equipment. Once the contractor is selected, the fabrication would begin. The final step
would be the delivery and installation of the equipment.
That’s correct. We expect the tendering process to take up to 3 months. The fabrication is
expected to take another 2 and a half years for the reactor. The delivery and installation should
take another 3 months.
I would like to take them up one by one. I am also assuming that all other equipment have a much
shorter lead time of under 2 years and the reactor is the bottleneck that we need to investigate.
That’s true.
First looking at ways of expediting the tendering process, 3 months seems like a long time. Is
there any particular reason for the same?
Since these are highly specialized equipment and the potential contractors are often not apprised
of the requirements before hand, we like to keep a 2 month bidding window to give them time to
prepare and bid for the same.
Yes, you got them.
Could you share the expected timeline for each phase? Also, is there any particular bucket you
want me to analyse first?
Sure. So, let's assume we have the capital requirements, fuel supply, licenses and land acquisition
figured out. The design and tendering processes are expected to take around 6 months. The
ensuing procurement and installation of equipment is expected to take 3 years. Finally, the
inspection and testing should last some 6 months, setting us up for operations 4 years from now.
Got it. So, we need to crash the process by around 12 months reducing it to 36 months
Correct.
Okay. I would like to start with looking at the design and planning phase. I have a few questions 
regarding the same:
• Is the design of the plan done in-house or through external consulting?
• What is the current status of the design plan?
• Is it done phase wise or is the complete design done at once before moving on to the next 
stage?
Currently we have identified an outside EPC for the designs. They have quoted a total time of 6 
months for all the deliverables.
I see. Is there any particular reason why we are not doing it phase wise? We can get the designs
in stages and start commissioning their fabrication. To optimize this, we can ask the EPC to start
with the design that requires maximum time for fabrication, delivery and installation.
Oil and Gas – Interview Transcript
Unconventional | Project Management | Oil & Gas | Challenging 
I see. Can we reduce this window? This might result in some additional costs as the bids might
not be as competitive as before. We can mitigate the same by ensuring that our tender is very
detailed. Also, doing it only for the reactor first should make it easier for the bidders.
We can reduce it to the minimum window of 2 weeks.
What about the fabrication? What is the mode of transport used for the delivery?
The fabrication is a black box for us. Not much we can do about it. The delivery depends on the
contractor used. 3 months for international contractors and 15 days for an Indian one.
I am guessing selectively going for an Indian vendor might result in some additional costs. Are
there any other concerns?
No, that’s about it. We can look into the same.
Great. Additionally, we can incentivize the contractor for early completion of the work.
Good. Let’s move on to the inspection phase.
Can you help me understand the inspection and testing process.
Sure. Inspection and testing is done in cycles of 15 days. Usually there are a lot of failures due to
specification mismatches and compatibility issues with the current plant. So various iterations are
needed. Certification is done by DGH officials who very often take months to give an
appointment for an inspection visit. The subsequent paperwork is also bureaucratic and can take
weeks.
I see. Can we take some precautionary steps to ensure that failures are minimized? Our
engineering team can work closely with the EPC and the equipment manufacturer to minimize
such instances. We can leverage our connections with the government to expedite the DGH
approval process.
Great. Let’s end the case.
Page 2142024-2025

===== PAGE 215 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a downstream O&G PSU who want your help in expanding their refinery faster.
Interviewee Notes
• It is imperative to 
recognise and clarify early 
on that this is an 
operations and project 
management case to avoid 
focusing too much on 
other aspects like finances.
• This is an interviewee 
driven case – make 
reasonable assumptions 
and keep verifying them 
with the interviewer.
• The objective is to 
understand your ability to 
break down the project 
into sub parts and analyse
each of them.
Case Facts
• Original plan ends in 48 
months. New 
requirement is to 
complete in 36 months. 
• Capital expenditure is 
not a concern. Client is 
willing to take up 
reasonable additional 
costs.
• Design and planning 
phase can be reduced 
by 5 months.
• Fabrication, delivery 
and installation by 4 
months.
• Inspection and testing 
by 3 to 4 months.
Recommendations
• Source the design of the bottleneck – the reactor first. Bundle the remaining designs together and complete in second phase. Min imises loss of economies of scale while 
crashing the lead time significantly.
• Leverage the vested interest of the government in a PSU refinery expansion to meet new norms to expedite processes like plan and port/checkpost clearances, 
approvals, etc.
• Proactive planning rather than reactive planning to minimise uncertainties and ensure timely completion of project.
Observations / Suggestions
• It is important to demonstrate an understanding of bottlenecks and the interdependencies between various steps of any project .
Page 215
Oil and Gas
Unconventional | Project Management | Oil & Gas | Challenging 
Crude Oil Supply
Capital Req.
Licenses
Approach/ Framework
Setup Designing Procurement & 
Installation Testing Certification & 
Operation
Land Acquisition
Selection of EPC
Design plan
Phase wise vs All 
at once
Tender process
Fabrication
Delivery
Installation
Failure resolutions
DGH Inspection
2024-2025
Click here for 
Panorama Report!

===== PAGE 216 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is an FMCG company, with revenues of $2 billion. Our focus is on one product that
they manufacture which is frozen dough. They are facing a problem of high spoilage rate in
comparison to the competitors. Last year, the client implemented first-in, first-out (FIFO) inventory
management system and started closely monitoring the shelf life of dough. The initiatives reduce
the spoilage rate from 10% to 7.5%, still much higher than the industry average of 2.5%. They want
you to identify the cause behind the high spoilage rate.
Okay, I would like to confirm the objective before proceeding. The client, a manufacturer of frozen
dough, has been experiencing a high spoilage rate even after the initiatives they carried out last year
and want our help to identify the issue. Is that correct? And since when has the client been
experiencing this problem?
Yes. Since the past four years.
Alright. To gain a better understanding of the client, can you please tell me more about the
product, the customers, and what part of the value chain does the client operate in?
The client manufacturers and transports the goods to the distributor as per the demand. Dough, as
you may know, is used for bakery products; it is frozen to extend its shelf life to 120 days. The
product should reach the customers with a minimum 60 days of shelf life remaining. There are two
primary customers: Supermarkets and Restaurants.
That helps. A couple of more questions to clarify the problem. Are we calculating spoilage only for
finished goods or at all stages of the process? How do we define spoilage- is it if a good is lying in
the warehouse beyond 60 days, i.e. remaining shelf life <60 days?
Good question. We will restrict ourselves to the spoilage in finished goods. Yes, the shelf life
determines the spoilage.
Great! So, although the spoilage is calculated for finished goods at the warehouse, there can be
other factors leading up to it. My approach would be to look at the different components of the
value chain and benchmark it against the industry best practices. Taking spoilage as products lying in
the warehouse beyond 60 days and not desired by the customers, my hypothesis is that the
quantity of goods produced is more than the demand leading to overstocking. Hence, I would first
focus on identifying reasons for this and then move to assess factors, if any, that may affect the
quality of the product.
That seems like a fair approach. You can go ahead and analyze the value chain.
The value chain for an FMCG company starts by procuring raw material, manufacturing and
packaging the product, storing it in the warehouse, and finally delivering it to the customer as and
when there is demand. Please let me know if I have missed out any component? Also, one last
assumption I want to confirm is that the product, like any consumer good, is made to stock?
That value chain is correct. Yes, that is true. The goods are made to stock.
Okay. Starting with the procurement of raw material, is there any significant difference in the
quality of raw material the client uses in comparison to the competitors? Lower quality of raw
material can reduce the shelf life of the dough as it is perishable in nature.
The client has the same supplier as the competitors. So, you can assume that the quality of the raw
material being received by everyone is uniform.
Alright. Moving on with manufacturing and packaging, can you brief me about the client’s
manufacturing practices and if they deviate from the industry?
The client, like all other players in the industry, manufactures dough using a machine. The client’s
machine is relatively older than the competitors, but the technology utilized by both the client
and competitors is similar.
The efficiency of machinery deteriorates with time. Using an old machine can pose two issues for
the client:
i) Lower efficiency, that is, the machine is slow and takes more time in the production process
or that it requires more raw material to produce the same quantity of dough.
ii) Lower effectiveness, that is, the quality of the dough manufactured is substandard
The machine is efficient in quality, usage of raw material, and production time but has a long
changeover time. Changeover time is basically the time that is required to set-up a machine
between two production cycles.
As per my understanding, if there is a long changeover time, companies often adopt a strategy of
having larger batch sizes in order to ‘amortize’ the production and resource time over a larger
number of items. The suitability of such a strategy depends on the industry and product. Do we
know if any such practice is being followed by the client?
Yes, good observation. The production is carried out in large batches, which is leading to the
spoilage since the batch sizes are larger than the demand for the product.
Products like ‘Frozen Dough’ perish when the batch sizes are larger than the demand, leading to
loss of time for the extra product being produced in every batch. For instance, a batch produced
today must reach customers within 60 days. Since batch sizes are larger than the demand, units
remaining are declared spoiled.
Is all of 7.5% spoilage due to large batch size?
No, this accounts for 3% of the spoilage. The remaining takes place at the warehouse, so you can
move on to that aspect.
Okay. Proceeding to the warehouse, because we are focusing on the quantity aspect, I am
assuming that the storage facilities of refrigeration, moisture control, and temperature are
satisfactory. Even with FIFO in place, there is consistent spoilage. This could be due to two
reasons:
i) Supply side issues due to inaccurate demand forecast/estimation, thereby leading to over-
production
ii) Demand side issues, like high fluctuating demand from the consumers which renders
forecasts imprecise.
The former is right. The client uses a software to forecast demand and the estimates are not
accurate. What do you think is wrong?
The inaccuracy could either come from the data fed into the software or the software itself.
Because the spoilage rate has been consistent, we can rule out the possibility of human errors in
capturing data.
i) Error in the mechanism of feeding data into the software
ii) Outdated software giving imprecise calculations
The latter is correct. The client is using outdated software which is not able to give accurate
results. Well Done!
FMCG: Supply Chain – Interview Transcript
Unconventional | Supply Chain Optimization | FMCG | Challenging
Page 2162024-2025

===== PAGE 217 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Spoilage
Your client is an FMCG company experiencing a high spoilage rate for one of its perishable products. They want your help to identify the 
problem areas to reduce the spoilage rate.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Objective: Reduce spoilage 
rate
• Clarify meaning of spoilage 
and where is it calculated
• Understand the value chain
• Analyze the entire value chain 
and benchmark with industry
• Important to realize that since 
spoilage means products still 
in the warehouse with shelf 
life of <60 days, there is over-
production. 
Case Facts
• Spoilage Rate
− Industry: 2.5%
− Client (last year): 10%
− Client (Current year): 
7.5%
• Strategy Implemented
− FIFO
− Monitoring shelf life
• Shelf life: 120 days
• Reach customer with 
minimum 60 days of shelf 
life
• Spoilage is calculated for 
finished foods at the 
warehouse.
• Customer:
− Supermarket (bakery)
− Restaurants
Recommendations for the client
• Invest in reducing the changeover time to make production of small batches feasible. Solutions: i) Repair the existing machine, or ii) Install a new machine. Do a long-term cost-
benefit analysis for taking decision.
• Update the forecasting software to have accurate estimates of demand.
• As the units declared spoiled are not inedible but only not desired by their current customers, till the time client implements the above two recommendations to reduce the spoilage
rate, they should look for alternate customers or alternate uses of the spoiled units.
Observations/Suggestions
• Volume-variability: One product does not imply no variety. Another reason contributing to spoilage could be inaccurate forecasting of volumes of different varieties of Frozen Dough,
which means there can be underproduction for some varieties and overproduction for others.
• Important to mention that other factors such as quality of raw material, pilferage, rodents, weather conditions, refrigeration, etc., are not included because of the initial agreed upon
definition of ‘spoilage’.
FMCG: Supply Chain
Page 217
Raw Material Manufacturing & 
Packaging Warehouse Distributors Customer
Supplier
Quality of material
Quantity purchased
Machinery
Human Capital
Packaging Process
Process
Storage conditions
Demand Forecasting
Storage Conditions
Transport to 
Customer
Transportation 
conditions
Transport to 
warehouse
Transport to 
distributors
2024-2025
Unconventional | Supply Chain Optimization | FMCG | Challenging
Spoilage
Volume Time
Machinery
Efficiency Effectiveness
Amount of Raw 
Material
Production Time
Click here for 
Panorama Report!

===== PAGE 218 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a leading Indian bank. They are planning to initiate a new loan scheme for commercial
vehicles. They need your help designing the policy for the new scheme.
I would first like to understand the bank and the new offering. I will assume a large-scale pan-India
operation for the bank, if I may. What is their current portfolio as far as loans are concerned?
Yes, that is a fair assumption. On their offerings, they do have numerous different type of loans in
their mix. In fact, they do offer vehicle loans as well currently. Just that they offer them mostly for
personal use vehicles such as your SUVs etc. Now they want to extend that to commercial vehicles
as those mini-trucks you see.
When offering loans for commercial vehicles, we can either offer that to individual users or on a
larger scale to organizations buying in bulk for their business purposes. Have we decided what
offering would be?
We will offer it only for individuals for now. Simply because we are into offering vehicle loans for
regular use vehicles to individuals and just want to extend that.
I would like to understand the overall market next. I am assuming there are other banks or even
NBFIs offering these loans. How are they positioned?
Fair point. There are numerous banks, and as you said, NBFIs are offering such loans. But for now,
we are not concerned about them. We do not need to benchmark our offering against them. We will
focus on deciding our internal policies for giving out these loans.
Let us take an individual marble transporter for that. He is planning to buy a carrier worth Rs.6 lakhs.
He will pay Rs.1 lakh on his own and has come to us to lend him the remaining Rs.5 lakhs. How do
we decide?
Sure. So, I will try and understand his financial standing and assess the probability of him defaulting on
the loan. May I assume that the revenue from the sales of marbles is the only source of income for
him?
Yes.
How many members are there in his family? Does any of them have a particular source of earning I
should factor in?
It is a typical Indian nuclear family. He lives with his wife and 2 kids. His father also stays with him.
None of them have a constant source of income you should consider in your analysis.
I will try and understand the business first and estimate his earnings. I will look into the possible
expenses and deduce his monthly earnings. Then I will estimate the EMI and see if he can sustainably
payout the loan. I will factor in the potential risks at the end and take the final call. I would also
conduct basic test checks on credit ratings, income tax returns, collateral, guarantor etc. Should I
move ahead with this approach?
Yes. Go ahead. How do you calculate his revenues?
As a transporter, the revenue is a direct function of the number of trips times the value generated
per trip. The number of trips itself will be a function of the demand and the capacity of the carrier.
We will need to assess the service side constraints as well to assess the number of trips undertaken.
Let us simplify it a bit. Let us say that he has just one large retailer to serve, and it takes him one
50km trip for him to reach the retailer. These are daily trips, and each earns him Rs.3000.
Perfect. Assuming that he works for 25 days a months, he gets Rs.75,000 (Rs.3000 * 25) from the
transportation of marbles.
Commercial Vehicle Loan – Interview Transcript
Unconventional | BFSI | Moderate | McKinsey Final Partner Case
That is a fair assumption. What next?
Next, we will try and estimate his expenses. For a 50km daily trip, assuming that the vehicle’s mileage
is 10km per liter of petrol and that the petrol prices are constant at Rs.100 per liter, his monthly
transport costs are Rs.25000 (100km/10kmpl * Rs.100 * 25). There will be other costs such as the
maintenance cost of the vehicle itself, the toll taxes involved on the route, and others.
You are right in your calculation. Let us take maintenance and all such overheads to amount Rs.5000
over a month.
Great. So, the total on-road cost becomes Rs.30000 per month. That leaves him with Rs.45000
dispensable income. Next, I will try and understand his living expenses. The primary expenses I will
consider is food and other necessities, rent and housing expenses, education expenses of children,
other miscellaneous experiences. Seems fair?
Mostly good. Any particular expense you would highlight in the miscellaneous header?
Probably with an elderly father in the house, the expense of his medicines can also be factored in,
particularly is he is not on a pension scheme himself.
Good point. So let us say that this is a tier 2 city, and he pays Rs.5000 in monthly rent, roughly
Rs.10000 on his food and other expenses and the children education and other expenses combined
come out to be another Rs.10000.
That sums up to Rs.25000. That leaves him with a dispensable income of Rs.20000 (45000-25000).
The other major expense for him will be the EMI towards the loan itself. Do we know the specifics of
the loan contract such as the rate, the time period?
Good. Let us say that the loan is being offered at 12% per annum for a 5-year period. You can
calculate the EMI later; it will amount to something around Rs.12000. How do you assess this?
That leaves him with Rs.8000 of monthly savings. The savings are positive, and it seems that he will be
able to make the payments, but risks need to be accounted for. Besides the regular loss of business
possibilities, other considerations like a medical emergency for an old father, or maybe
university/college admissions for his kids, there are risks to be accounted for.
Based on the analysis of such factors, we can decide on a cumulative factor. So, let’s say we get a 0.5
factor over the disposable income, we can say that if the expected EMI is at most 0.5 times the net
savings, then we will payout the loan else we will not. This number can be calculated using historical
data from our regular vehicle loans or other loan offerings.
Great point. We have done that analysis at our level and let’s say that factor is 0.65. What would you
say then?
0.4 over a Rs.20000 net income means a maximum EMI of Rs. 8000 is safe. Since, the current plan has
an EMI of Rs.12000, we should not sanction the loan to him. We can change the contract terms and
see if there is a possibility because a 5-year window seems too short to me.
No worries that would not be needed. Thanks for the comprehensive analysis.
Page 2182024-2025

===== PAGE 219 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a leading Indian bank. They are planning to initiate a new loan scheme for commercial vehicles. They need your help designing the 
policy for the new scheme.
Interviewee Notes
• Leading Indian bank = 
Should have large pan-
India presence
• Commercial Vehicles 
= Specific mention so 
other types needs to 
be checked
• New loan scheme = 
Should benchmark 
against existing 
schemes
Case Facts
Company:
• Current portfolio of loans 
offered = Having experience 
with different kinds of loans 
eases the process during a fresh 
launch and also serves as a data 
bank to be used.
• Scale of operation = Pan-India vs 
a localized operation can be 
contextually very different
Customer + Product:
• Individual clients against large-
scale industrial players = 
Different contractual demands 
and hence scheme
Competitors
• Other players in the market = 
serves both as a benchmark and 
a data bank to get industry 
numbers
• Current market shape = 
possibility of a new player 
entering
• Role of NBFIs in the analysis = 
Special case with large disruptive 
power
Key Learnings
• Scoping the problem at the very start is the key on unconventional cases as this. Without defining the subject of analysis, i t would have been very difficult to dig further.
• Quantitative cases are by their nature very particular. Double checking the exact calculation before speaking is very importa nt. A small error is a major dampener. Best way to check is run 
the entire calculation through the interviewer briefly.
• Important to make assumptions on the fly both as an unconventional and a number-heavy case. Always a good idea to keep explicitly stating the assumptions and avoid a carry-forward 
effect of errors later.
• Interviewer always wants something particular out of these. Good to be in the discussion mode and present as many alternatives as possible and let them lead you. Being conservative and 
very particularly hypothesis-heavy might actually hurt.
Commercial Vehicle Loan
Unconventional | BFSI | Moderate | McKinsey Final Partner Case
Net Disposable 
Income
Transport 
Earnings Total Expenses
Vehicle 
Expenses
Non-vehicle 
Expenses
Fuel Expenses
Maintenance
Toll 
Payments
Overheads
Rent & 
Housing
Food & Living
EMI 
Payments
Health & 
Education
Header Calculation
Transport 
Earnings
25/month * Rs.3000
= Rs.75000
(-) Vehicle 
Expenses
Fuel
100km/10kmpl*Rs.100*25/month
= Rs.25000
Non-Fuel = Rs.5000
Total = Rs.30000
(-) Others Rent = Rs.5000
Food and Living = Rs.10000
Health, Education etc. = Rs. 10000
EMI Payments = Rs. 12000
Total = Rs.37000
Savings Rs.8000
Click here for 
Panorama Report!
Page 2192024-2025

===== PAGE 220 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Rural Credit Rating for Microfinance Institution – Interview Transcript
Unconventional | BFSI / Finance | Moderate | McKinsey buddy case
Your client is a microfinance institution that wishes to prepare a credit rating framework
for microfinance loans for the rural Indian population. Assist in creating the framework.
Okay. First, I would like to understand the objective of our client and their existing
business.
The client wants to capture new markets and maximize long term profits. The client finds
immense potential in microfinance sector.
Okay. Is the client targeting a specific geographic region or a specific rural segment. What
is the timeline for GTM strategy?
There are no specific numbers that they have in mind. The client wants be a competitive
player to capture the rural market segment.
Okay. What are the key sources of income that the client is targeting?
The client wants to target rural farmers as they constitute a major segment market. The
client wants to be accessible to all including individual farmers, family trusts, corporate
farmers, and co-operatives. What do you think what be the necessary data the client
would want to have to proceed with their objective?
Credit rating is an essential part of banking decisions. For credit rating, estimating risks
would be the key factor.
That seems fair, Please go ahead.
I would like to structure the credit rating framework in 3 parts now. First, I would identify
factors that are a function of the risks related to rural sources of income by categorizing
them based on income, assets, and liabilities. Second, I would like to create a credit rating
mechanism based on the identified risks. I would try to set up a framework based on the
risk identified and define the weightage of such risks based on their financial and non-
financial consequences. Third, I would like to devise a credit scoring mechanism in line
with competitors and risk environment.
You can go ahead with identifying the factors contributing to risks.
I have segregated different categories of income, liabilities and assets relevant
predominantly to the rural sector. I would prepare a form soliciting this information when
potential customers apply for a loan.
Let’s first deep dive into each of the categories that are in consideration
I would start with income and bifurcate it into agricultural and non-agricultural income as
farming is the largest income source in rural areas. The agricultural income could be in
terms of wages or profits from farming. I would like to deep dive into the profits.
Please go ahead.
Profits from farming would be a function of Revenue and Costs. Further, the revenue can
be divided into price and number of units produced. While the Price would depend on the
crop and the market conditions, the unit produced would be Area times Yield per unit
Area. The revenues are prone to fluctuation depending on the weather conditions, and
hence can be highly volatile. These are the parameters on which can be used as input for
the credit score. Further, all major cost heads such as raw material, labor are market
commoditized. These costs would not vary hugely across years.
How does that affect the credit score?
The cost factors might not affect the credit score in terms of individual but would have a
macroscopic effect on the region by affecting the agricultural profitability. The overall
degree of profit volatility can also be treated as an input while assigning a credit score.
Great. Now you can talk about other factors
Sure. Moving on to non-agricultural income, this would be largely from rent, poultry or
sale of by-products. The proportion of agricultural and non-agricultural income would also
be a factor under consideration as it would convey the stability of revenue streams of the
farmers.
Now should I deep dive into assets and liabilities?
Yes, you can.
For Assets, I would again like to bifurcate them into agricultural and non-agricultural
assets. Agricultural assets can be land and equipment, whereas non-agricultural assets in
typical rural areas can be gold, poultry and other investments such as in SHGs (self-help
groups). Liabilities can be existing loans or any borrowed working capital.
The amount of assets held by farmers vis-à-vis their liabilities, including the amount they
owe to moneylenders, friends etc., can be assessed as another input while developing a
credit rating.
Okay. You have identified the factors to be considered for assessing the risk. How will you
collect this data?
I would like to now define a broad mechanism to collect the information relating to the
identified factors. Firstly, the farmer would be required to declare income, assets and
liabilities. This information shall be verified by various sources.
Okay. How would you go about verifying this information?
I would now validate this information through third-party sources. They could be
categorized as personal – such as family; professional – such as money lenders, suppliers;
and social sources – such as police, panchayat etc. .
Great! You can now go ahead with the next steps
Based on the information received and validated, I would like to go ahead by assigning risk
scores for every bucket and weightages to every bucket therein. For this, do we have any
competitor information publicly available that discusses the weights generally assigned to
such factors? We can consider benchmarking with existing players in the short run while
we decide an alternative.
This is proprietary information and we do not have access to the same. Any other
alternative?
I could undertake research to find out relation between these income, assets and liability
classes and defaults. I could also factor in the risk of default based on past defaults and
trends in the geography/sector.
Okay. That’s it from my end for now. Thanks for your time.
Page 2202024-2025

===== PAGE 221 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Credit Rating frameworkInterviewee Notes
• Important to understand the 
client, their business model and 
the competitive landscape 
within the geography selected 
for entry
• Strategy chosen needs to 
match the overall objective of 
the client
Case Facts
• Client is a financial institution 
that wants to foray into rural 
microfinance in North India
• Objective is long term 
profitability
Recommendations
• Short-Term: Consider benchmarking with existing players for
maintaining uniformity
• Long-Term: Set up niche frameworks to bridge gaps in existing
framework through extensive research and surveys
Key Learnings
• In abstract cases, it is important to create a framework that would make logical sense by asking relevant
questions
1. Risk evaluation – Identify and 
validate factors for risk 2. Create rating based on risk parameters
Income Assets
Liabilities
Structure
Rural Credit Rating for Microfinance Institution – Case Structure
Unconventional | BFSI / Finance | Moderate | McKinsey buddy case
Your client is a microfinance institution that wishes to prepare a credit rating framework for microfinance loans for the rural Indian population. Assist in
creating the framework.
3. Create credit scoring mechanism
Income
Agricultural
Wages
Fixed income
Income based on 
% of production 
Profits from 
farming
Costs Revenue
Price #Units Produced
• Raw material
• Equipment 
• Utilities
• Labour
Non-agricultural
Asset Renting
Sale of By-
products          
(Eg. seeds)
Poultry Based
Assets
Agricultural
Land
Equipment 
Poultry
Non agricultural
Gold
Investments in 
SHGs, FDs, etc.
Liabilities
Existing loans Borrowed 
Working capital
Verify information using 3 types of proofs –
1) Personal evidence  - On ground verification
2) Professional evidence – Suppliers, customers
3) Social evidence – local administration (to 
the extent possible)
• Area
• Yield per hectare
• Nature of Crop
• Variation due to 
Supply Demand or 
other factors
Click here for Panorama Report!
2024-2025 Page 221

===== PAGE 222 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
FMCG  – Interview Transcript
Unconventional | FMCG | Challenging | Partner Case - Kearney 
Your client is an FMCG company that produces staples like - dal, rice, oil etc. The client is facing 
issues with its salesforce effectiveness. Identify the reasons and give recommendations for the 
same.
I would like to know more about what the client does. So, I understand that the client produces 
staple food but where exactly does the client operate in the value chain, i.e. is the client just 
processing these staples and distributing or responsible for production as well?
2024-2025
So, the client is responsible for buying raw materials from farmers, then processing and finally
distributing them to the wholesalers and retailers. They, in turn, sell the products to the end 
consumer. The client also owns a few retail stores but 99% of its business is derived from selling 
to retailers.
Thanks for the clarification. Moving forward, I would like to know what is the time frame that we 
are looking at here. Since when is the client facing this decline and by how much?
The client is seeing this decline from the past 6 months. It has seen a decline of 10-15% in its 
salesforce effectiveness.
So, it’s a fairly recent occurrence. Has there been some recent industry-wide change in place 
that has caused this decline to be seen by our competitors too or is it limited to our client?
No this is limited to our client. The competitors are also facing some decline but is not significant 
compared to our performance.
Alright, what are the product offerings of the company? And has this decline been seen in the 
sales of a particular product offered by the client?
Okay, So now I have a pretty good idea of the client’s business. I would like to understand how 
does the client measure this KPI?
The client measures the salesforce effectiveness as the number of units sold per person per 
month.
Company’s most prized products are sunflower oil and wheat flour. But for the interest of the 
case, you can assume any product of your interest.
Okay, and is it limited to a particular geographical area the client operates in or it an issue across 
the geographies?
No, the issue is not localized, it is a pan-India problem.
So, I would like to break this down into either:
1. Slump in demand for our product - which could be due to an increase in demand for the 
competitors' product or, a decrease in complementary products or substitutes available. 
2. Issues with supply - due to issues with production, distribution ,or marketing. 
Although, there are very less chances of the demand decline for staples in a short period unless 
there is major change made in the product offering. So, unless that’s the case, I’m assuming its 
majorly a supply side issue. Am I correct to assume that?
Good, that’s correct. There is no decrease in the demand for our product as it is a commodity 
product. So you can go on and explore the supply side issues. 
Okay. So, for supply side as I already did, we can segregate into production, distribution and 
marketing. For production, there is possibility we are not producing enough for the salesforce 
to sell, or for distribution, we are not able to push our products to the retailers?
Marketing does not seem to be an issue as the demand for product has been constant.
Fair point. So we are able to produce as much as we are able to sell by working at 60% capacity. 
So, there is issue with retail push by the salesforce. Could I get a typical journey of a 
salesperson? in a day?Sure, good question. So, the salesperson leaves his house at 8 am to sell orders to the 
shops/retailers in the area assigned to him. He picks the shops he will be visiting and tries to sell 
as many orders as he can. The day ends at 5 pm, post which he goes to the district office assigned 
to his city and drops of the orders there before returning home. 
But there has been no change in any of the processes in the last 6 months.
Alright, this makes the distribution process way clearer. So, I will divide the issue into two parts, 
internal to the salesperson and external to the salesperson. Internal will include 3 basic factors of 
Ability*Motivation*Opportunity and external included no of shops visited per day*no of units 
sold per shop. As mentioned above the overall day of the salesperson hasn’t changed, therefore I 
would start with the qualitative factors.
Okay, fair enough.
So, I’ll start with Motivation. Motivation can be both monetary and non-monetary. Monetary 
would include the fixed and variable compensation structure and non-monetary would include 
the fringe benefits provided by the company. What is the pay structure like in the company and 
has it changed in the last 6 months.
The compensation structure consisted of 30,000 per month of fixed pay and a variable pay of 500 
for every additional 100 units sold. This was then changed to 30,000 fixed pay with variable pay of 
800 for additional 120 unit sold. This was done in order to incentivize salespeople to sell more 
units 
So, the Rs 5 variable pay per unit was changed to Rs 6.67 variable pay per unit. Ideally this is 
supposed to increase the sales incentive. Do we know the units that the salesperson is capable 
of selling given there is no incentive structure in place?
Good question. The salesrep is sells 90 units in absence of any variable pay in place.
Interesting, so earlier the sales rep only had to sell additional 10 units to get the extra 500, but 
as the slab has been increased to 120, the salesrep now has to push for an additional 30 units. As 
it is a commoditized product with demand constant, this will be difficult to achieve. Hence the 
motivation to sell additional 10 units dropped to leading an approx. 10% decline as seen.
Good job.
So, moving forward now I would like to access the ability of the salesperson. This would include 
his product knowledge and communication as well as persuasion skills to sell the product. To 
understand this, I would like to know the average duration of employees in the company, the 
training programs in place and the attrition rate of employees.
So, the average tenure of the salesperson is ~2 years. Due to high attrition rate in the industry, the 
employee turnover is very high, leading to low expertise of new employees to sell the product due 
to poor training programs in place. This has been an industry wide issue.
Good, now that you have identified the issues, can you come up with some recommendations
Short term: Changing the slab to a smaller value starting from 90 units and incrementing every 10 
units sold.
Long term: This will include setting up an extensive, on-the-job training structure in place. We 
should look at decreasing dependency on sales force by entering into long term contracts with 
retailers. Also, there is an opportunity for route optimizations for the salespeople to decrease 
commute time.
Thank You
Page 222

===== PAGE 223 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Recommendations
• Short term: a) Restructure the variable pay structure and start slabs from the minimum units sold and keeping the size always in the achievable range and small.
• Long term: a) Provide on the job training to new employees on the field to make them understand the job better.
b) Decreasing dependency on the salesforce by entering into long-term contracts with the retailers.
c) Providing Route optimization and tracking to employees to make their day more efficient.
Key Learnings
• It is important to understand the KPIs used by the client.
• It is important to think about the decrease in efficiency from all perspectives and not just the salesforce selling less unit s. Geography and product offerings should also be considered.
• Quantitatively analysing the pay policy by understanding the usefulness of variable pay is important. This needs benchmarking to units sold without variable pay to understand the issues.
Your client is an FMCG company that produces staples like - dal, rice, oil etc. The client is facing issues with its salesforce effectiveness. Identify the reasons
and give recommendations for the same.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• It is important to understand 
the KPI the client is focussing 
on. It is possible that it has 
different meaning to you and 
the client. It is always better 
to clarify.
• Enquire about product mix, 
geography, integration across 
supply chain, competitors.
• It is important to understand 
the saleperson’s journey.
• It is important here to 
understand the motivation of 
the employees to sell more 
units than they normally can 
and connect that to the pay 
structure to figure out the 
gaps.
Case Facts
• Focus on a single product 
offering.
• The industry is facing 
similar decline but in 
lesser magnitude. 
compared to our client
• It is a geography-wide 
issue.
• Demand for the staples 
from our brand has not 
changed.
• No Production constraints 
and neither are there any 
distribution constraints.
• It’s a order collection 
issue by the sales 
personnel: The monetary 
benefits scheme of the 
company was not aligned 
to sell maximum units.
• Also the high attrition rate 
in the industry made the 
training programs weak 
and hence low skill levels.
FMCG
Page 223
No of 
units/person
2024-2025
Demand Supply
MarketingProductionDistribution
Order 
collection Transportation
Raw 
materials 
Sourcing
Reprocessing
Packaging 
and Storage
Internal External
Ability Motivation Opportunity
No of Shops 
visited/day
No of units 
sold/shop
No of 
working 
hours
Monetary Non-
Monetary
Fixed Variable Fringe 
benefits
Knowledge Soft skills
Unconventional | FMCG | Challenging | Partner Case - Kearney 
Click here for 
Panorama Report!

===== PAGE 224 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
The client is a legacy newspaper player that has recently acquired a digital media firm. They seek
your advice on the integration of both companies.
I would like to know more about the client’s business. What exactly are the offerings of both firms
and the objective behind the acquisition?
The client prints a national daily which has a pan-India presence. Due to stagnant growth in
readership (1-2%), they wanted to move into the digital space. The acquired firm majorly focuses on
entertainment-related news catering to a younger audience on the internet and also has a mobile
application. Although bringing in 50% of the client’s revenue, the digital media company is poised to
grow 10% CAGR over the next 10 years.
Thanks. I would also like to know what specific problem the client expects me to work on in the
post-merger integration.
Why don’t you tell me what issues arise in this phase?
In such a phase, issues can arise in the following areas:
1. People-related: Pertains to the workforce and human resources. Some examples can be
compensation normalization, role duplicity, culture mismatch, difference in leadership vision, etc.
2. Resource-related: Regarding the distribution of assets and claims-to-use between the two firms
3. System-related: Regarding different processes followed to perform similar tasks, differences in
organizational policies and functions, etc.
4. Technology-related: Tackles differences in level of technological adoption between the two firms.
This seems comprehensive. I would now like you to focus on people-related and systems-related
issues. The client wants you to estimate how to allocate the workforce in the combined entity.
Can you tell me about both firms' current organizational structure?
Assume that both the firms currently have marketing function, legal function, finance function, and
HR function consolidated at their respective HQs. The legacy firm doesn’t have a digital strategy
function which the newer firm has, but it has a distributor relation and publishing function. The larger
firm has a geographical divisional structure, with each region as a distinct profit center, and content
generation happens at this regional level. The latter has a content generation function further divided
into different types of content (entertainment, technology, business, etc.). With this information, tell
me how you would aim to integrate the workforce.
Thank you for the information. First, I would like to list the activities I would undertake during the
integration process. First would be deciding on the organizational structure of the new entity. The
second would be redundancy elimination. Lastly, I would suggest a few policies and initiatives to help
the workforce adjust to the combined entity.
Sounds good. Please go ahead.
I would suggest a structure with 2 divisions: Digital content and traditional. I’m suggesting this due to
the estimated high projected digital content sales. At growth of 10% for 10 years, it will be around
2.5 times the current size. On the other hand, the legacy firm would only be 1.15 times. Given that
currently the digital media firm is around 50% in sales value, it will bring more revenue than the
client within 10 years.
That makes sense. Why do you recommend a separate division for it?
This division stems from the following considerations:
1. Autonomy: The digital media firm has fundamentally different capabilities and strategic advantages
that need separate management purview and objectives.
2. Accountability: The entity needs to keep up with the solid growth trend and key executives
should be held accountable by making it a different profit center
3. Authority: This division can empower CXOs to take faster decisions and respond to the industry
more flexibly. It’s crucial in a high-growth firm that is usually hurt by organizational bureaucracy.
Seems fair. What else do you suggest with the organizational structure?
I would not change the current structure of the traditional division as it is currently generated at a
regional level. I would, however, integrate a content strategy team spanning both divisions to steer
the nature of the content. I would consolidate HQ functions from two to one. It would mean that a
few challenges would occur during the allocation process that I’ll address in the next step. I would
also suggest that the digital media division leverage the regional content created to penetrate the
target geographies better. I would further look at the reduction in employee cost, as each content
piece has a scope of being cross-utilized digitally and in print.
Great. Now let’s move on to the second task. You mentioned redundancy elimination.
Yes. At this stage, I suggest the client reduce the employee cost in the intersecting functions. First,
estimating how many people are required in intersecting functions would make sense.
Assume this study has been conducted already, and the client has concluded that 60% percent of
roles in the intersecting functions are redundant post-integration. How would you proceed?
I would then perform a fitment test to determine which employees best suit their roles. I
understand that different organizational skills are needed at different levels. Hence, I would classify
the employees in duplicate functions basis role seniority: Junior, mid-managerial, and leadership
level. At each stage, people require different skills. We can categorize them into technical,
interpersonal, and conceptual skills. Junior employees require technical skills the most, and the
mid-managerial workforce needs good interpersonal or people skills. Senior leadership should
exhibit conceptual or leadership and strategic skills.
How do you assess who will be better suited for each role?
An assessment should be created that would evaluate people basis relevant skills for their role. It
should include feedback from 2 sources: External sources of feedback such as peer/superior/
subordinate feedback, and interview feedback with a panel (for relatively senior employees).
Internal sources can be recent performance ratings and growth trajectory. Another source can be
situational tests (senior roles) or technical tests (junior roles). Should I deep-dive into this?
That suffices. What do you suggest happens to the 60% of people in the redundant functions who
do not qualify past the fitment test?
Provisions should be made to find alternative roles at the similar level for them. They can be told
about the result candidly and should be given the option of getting to a role one level below their
current role. The client should also account for the feasibility of rehiring workers if it is required in
the short term due to growth, hence temporary role allotments can be explored further. Laying
people off should be the least preferred alternative.
All right. Please highlight briefly a few initiatives to improve the integration of employees in the
merged entity.
New initiatives can be taken to integrate can be done on an employee or organizational basis. On
the employee level, we can look at employee training & development and redressal. For the T&D
aspect, it can be further viewed from 2 perspectives, monetary and non-monetary. From the
monetary angle, policies can be implemented to ensure equal pay and incentives for employees in
both divisions. On a non-monetary basis, a few policy suggestions can be cross-dimensional training
can be done for personal growth, along with the facilitation or interaction opportunities for junior
teams with management. Knowledge-sharing sessions and skill assessments can also be used to
upskill the employees. On redressal, it can be looked at from a personal level or cross-
organizational level. Former deals with channels to encourage employees to speak up any hostility
arising from hiring/firing and latter with cross-organizational employee engagement sessions to
reduce friction. On the organizational level, two lenses we can consider is resource symmetry
(normalization in systems, technologies, processes, etc.) or culture symmetry (uniformity in ways of
working, norms, expectations, socialization, etc.)
Great! We can close the case here.
Post-Merger Workforce Integration 
Unconventional | HR Strategy | Moderate
Page 2242024-2025

===== PAGE 225 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a legacy newspaper company who has recently acquired a digital media firm. They want your help in identifying post-merger 
integration issues and providing recommendations for the same.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Objective: Advice on post
acquisition steps
• Clarify the scope of the
problem and what exactly
the client wants
• Different organizational
structures – workforce
integration needs to be
analyzed
Case Facts
• Client: Pan India presence,
growth in readership
stagnant at 1-2%
• Acquired Firm: Digital
media firm with a focus on
entertainment news, 10%
CAGR over next 10 years
• Common functions to
both firms: marketing,
legal, finance, HR
• Client doesn’t have digital
strategy function, has
distributor & publisher
related functions
• Geographical division –
every area has a separate
profit center
• 50% roles in intersecting
functions are redundant
post integration
Recommendations for the client
• Finding alternative roles for employees in intersecting redundant functions
• Initiatives can be introduced for post-acquisition smoother integration of the workforce
• New initiatives on an organizational and employee basis, further aiming at training, development and redressal
Observations/Suggestions
• Always define the scope of the problem at the very beginning, to avoid going in the incorrect direction during case analysis
• Define the structure and plan before deep-diving into any specific verticals
• Keep on confirming with the interviewer if any particular bucket needs to be explored further
Page 2252024-2025
Post-Merger Workforce Integration 
Unconventional | HR Strategy | Moderate
People Related 
Organizational Structure New Initiatives
Digital 
Content
Traditional 
Content
Internal
Feedback
Junior Level
Technical 
Skills
Redundancy Elimination
External
Feedback
Mid-
Managerial 
Level
Senior 
Leadership
Interpersonal 
Skills
Situational 
Tests
Technical 
Tests
Considerations:
1. Autonomy
2. Accountability
3. Authority
Organizational 
Basis
Employee
Basis
RedressalEmployee 
T&D
Monetary Non-Monetary
Conceptual 
Skills
Cross-Org 
Level
Personal 
Level
Resource Related System Related Technology Related 
Post Merger Issues 

===== PAGE 226 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Cab Aggregator – Interview Transcript
Unconventional | Automotive Sector | Challenging | Senior Director Case - A&M
Moving to administration costs, has the client observed any fluctuations?
No, these are fairly optimized. Let us skip this part.
Great. So, I will now summarize our findings and recommendations for the same.
Sure. Go ahead.
Moving on to car purchases, the extremely damaged conditions of the roads should be reported
Reach out to the municipal corporation on urgent notice for repair. If vehicles keep operating on
such roads for prolonged duration, it will reduce the overall lifetime of the vehicle owing to
frequent repairs. As a result, the depreciation cost of vehicles operating in these regions would
be higher compared to others. Consequently, we would have to purchase cars more frequently
to maintain the same fleet strength.
Alternatively, we can also do a cost benefit analysis of forgoing operations in these parts of the
city. The loss of revenue against the extra costs incurred by the client.
Good. I would check with the client on the same if that is a possibility.
The client is trying to solve for cost reduction. We analysed the operations of the client involving 
aftersales service, car purchases and administration. We found three problems:
1. FCFS approach of task allocation at service garage.
2. Procurement of spare parts from local distributors.
3. Frequent visits of vehicles due to operations in city regions with damaged roads.
It is recommended that the client adopts the following changes in its process to reduce costs:
1. Task allocation to expert and non-expert technicians based on complexity.
2. Assessment of complexity via preliminary questionnaire filled by drivers.
3. Sign-off from expert technicians on the work done by non-expert technicians.
4. Use of guided diagnostic tools as a service assistant to improve the FFV and reduce service 
downtime of the vehicle.
5. Report the damaged condition of the roads to the municipal corporation based on feedback 
from drivers.
6. Assess the possibility of stopping operations in certain regions of the city.
Alright. Let’s stop here. Well done. Thank you.
Your client is a cab aggregator in Mumbai. The operational efficiency and cost structure for the
company has scope for improvement. It wants you to analyse and provide possible
recommendations for the same.
To reconfirm the objective, does the problem reside only on the cost side or should I analyse the
revenues too? Also, what is the reason behind client’s strategy to cut down on costs? Has the
client witnessed an increase in costs, or the industry has become price competitive?
The client only wants us to analyze costs and suggest measures to improve upon the same. There
are no major competitors in the industry. Yes, the costs have increased in the last few months.
Alright, so we need to focus on the bottom line. Moving on, to gather more insights, what is value
creation by our client?
Drivers hire cars from our client for a fixed duration at an agreed rental to move passengers
locally within the city. The cost of the petrol is borne by the driver themselves. In addition to
this, the client owns a garage on the city outskirts to cater the servicing and maintenance needs.
Now that I have understood the value offered by our client. I would like to breakdown costs into
three major buckets i.e. car purchases, maintenance and administration to see where the issue
lies. Should I go ahead with the same or is there any cost bucket I might be missing out on?
Sounds good, please proceed further to evaluate maintenance first.
Okay, I would investigate the employee costs, spare parts costs and the number of incoming
vehicles. Focusing on the employee costs, what is the priority rule adopted in allocation of tasks
to service technicians?
Presently, the vehicles are allocated on FCFS basis to the technicians for service after the driver
fills out a preliminary questionnaire at the time of depositing the vehicle.
Are the service cost per vehicle serviced higher than the industry benchmarks?
The servicing garage is not the major operations of our client. They do not possess any such
information. It is only to augment the rental business.
Oh Okay, to further understand the spare parts. I would like to know how the client procures
spare parts for servicing? Is it directly from OEMs or through distributors?
The client purchases spare parts from a local distributor with long standing relationship.
Lastly has the client witnessed a greater inflow of vehicles for servicing over the last few months
in coherence with the overall increase in costs?
Great observation, that is in fact true. Previously the preventive maintenance deadline was earlier
of 3 months or kilometers limit reached. On an average every vehicle was serviced 2.5 months.
This number has come down to 1.5 months for vehicles incoming from certain regions of the city.
This implies that vehicles operating of the city are more prone to damage and hence, require
more frequent servicing. This could possibly be because of damaged roads due to heavy
monsoons that Mumbai receives or the rash use of the vehicle by the driver. Having stayed in
that city and this time of year, it is more likely to be the former case.
Yes, the drivers from these regions have also complained of extremely damaged roads. So, what
do you suggest? How should the client go about the maintenance costs?
Perfect. I would recommend the following changes to reduce the overall maintenance costs :
1. The vehicle allocation to expert and non-expert service technicians should be done based
on the task complexity instead of FCFS.
2. The task complexity can be assessed via the preliminary questionnaire filled by drivers at
the time of deposit.
3. The spare parts should be procured from OEMs directly and not the local distributors.
4. The non-expert technicians should seek sign-off on the work done by them from the expert
technicians before handing off the vehicle for delivery.
Can you provide rationale for the process changes suggested by you at the garage?
The FCFS approach of allocating vehicles to technicians might allocate a fairly complex task to a
non-expert technician. The technician would be occupied for a larger duration as compared to an
expert technician and might not completely resolve the issue. In an attempt to resolve the issue,
the non-expert might employ greater resources than required. Therefore, the service downtime
of vehicle is greater than it should be and reduces the first fixed visit number with a greater
likelihood of vehicle coming back for repair earlier than it should causing loss of revenue. The
allocation of tasks based on complexity and sign-off from expert technicians on the non-expert
technician’s work would go a great work in addressing the overall cost issue.
The procurement of spare parts from OEMs would ensure greater authenticity and lifetime due
to lower failure rate. This would also be marginally cheaper cutting out the distributor from the
supply chain.
These are great suggestions and sounds readily implementable. Any other recommendations?
Page 2262024-2025

===== PAGE 227 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Recommendations
• Task allocation to expert and non-expert technicians based on complexity. Assessment of complexity via preliminary questionnaire filled by drivers.
• Sign-off from expert technicians on the work done by non-expert technicians. Use of guided diagnostic tools as an assistant to improve the FFV and reduce the service downtime of the vehicle.
• Report the damaged condition of the roads to the municipal corporation based on feedback from drivers. Assess the possibility of stopping operations in certain regions of the city.
Key Learnings
• It is important to uncover all the problems and the interlinkages between them – operational inefficiency at the service garage and the damaged condition of the roads to reduce the overall costs.
• It is critical to understand the proficiency of the client in their auxiliary operations of aftersales. This should not be di rectly evident to avoid infuriating the client.
• Moving along the journey of the vehicle in its lifetime and at the service garage would help better understand the problems t hat might exist at every step of the way.
Your client is a cab aggregator in Mumbai. The operational efficiency and cost structure of the company has scope for improvement. It wants you to analyse
and provide possible recommendations for the same.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Cost reduction by focusing
on operational efficiency.
• Enquire about value creation
offered by the client.
• It is important to focus on
both the operations at the
service station as well as the
frequency of vehicle visits to
fix all core problems.
• It is critical to understand
that the client is not
proficient in aftersales. The
service garage is only an
augmentation to the primary
operations.
• Outlining all possible
solutions to the client along
with the rationale for your
recommendation.
Case Facts
• Increase in costs over
the last few months.
• No major competitors
in the industry.
• Client owns the cars
and provides on rental
to drivers.
• Provides maintenance
through its own garage.
• Drivers complain of
damaged roads in
certain parts of the city.
• FCFS approach to
allocate tasks at garage.
• Procurement of spare
parts from local
distributor.
Costs
Administration Maintenance
Number 
of Vehicles Spare Parts
Cab Aggregator
Employee
Car Purchases
FCFS
Local 
Distributor OEMs
Complexity
Task 
Allocation
Service 
Downtime
First Fixed 
Visit (FFV)
Expert and Non-Expert 
Technicians
Visit 
Frequency Geographies
DepreciationFleet 
Expansion
Unconventional | Automotive Sector | Challenging | Senior Director Case - A&M
Page 2272024-2025

===== PAGE 228 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
The client is an online fashion retailer that has noticed a significant increase in returned orders
recently. They have approached you to identify the root cause of the issue and provide actionable
recommendations to resolve it.
I would like to confirm the objective before I proceed. The client has seen an increase in returned
orders, and they want to figure out why this is happening and fix it. Is there another objective or a
specific aspect of the returns process that they are particularly concerned about?
No other objective. The focus is solely on identifying the root cause and providing solutions to
minimize the return rates.
Understood. Before diving deeper into the problem, I have a couple of questions to better
understand the context. Could you please tell me about the different product lines the retailer
offers and the customer segments they target? Also, I'd like to know more about their business
model—how are orders processed, and what role do logistics and warehousing play?
The retailer sells Apparels, Footwear, and Accessories to men, women, and kids. Orders are
placed through an app, which is their primary sales channel. The products are stored in the
retailer's warehouses and are then delivered through courier service.
Got it. So, it's a fairly typical e-commerce setup with a central warehouse and third-party logistics 
handling the delivery. Now, when it comes to the returns, I'd like to explore possible reasons. In 
my experience, return reasons can typically be categorized into three main areas:
Product-related issues: These include the wrong product being delivered, a mismatch between the 
product and its online representation (e.g., color, size, or quality discrepancies), size misfit, or 
quality issues where the product doesn’t meet the customer’s expectations.
Customer-related issues: Customers might change their minds after receiving the product or find 
better alternatives elsewhere, leading to returns.
Process-related issues: This could involve issues such as delivery delays, where the product 
arrives too late for the customer to find it useful, or problems in the order fulfillment process.
You’re spot on with those categories. To pinpoint the issue, the retailer has observed that wrong
orders are being delivered to customers, which has significantly contributed to the increase in
returns. Could you drill down further to identify where the problem lies?
Sure, the delivery of the wrong order can be traced back to several potential causes. For instance,
there could be customer errors while placing the order, such as selecting the wrong item or size.
Alternatively, there could be glitches in the app that result in the wrong order being processed.
On the other hand, the issue might be on the retailer's side—perhaps something is going wrong in
the warehouse, or the courier company is making mistakes during delivery. Do you have any
insight into which part of this chain is causing the problem?
The problem has been identified at the retailer’s end. It's not due to customer errors or the
courier service.
Alright, that narrows it down. Just to summarize everything so far: The number of returned
orders has increased recently, and this issue is due to mistakes occurring at the retailer’s end,
resulting in customers receiving the wrong products. Is that correct?
Yes, that’s correct.
Do you know why this issue has surfaced recently? Has there been any change in the retailer’s
operations? A new product line, an increase in order volume, or changes to their fulfilment
process?
The retailer has recently launched lots of trendy designs, which has led to a significant rise in
demand. This surge in orders seems to be overwhelming the existing process.
From what I gather, the old order fulfilment process may not be scaling well with the increased
demand, leading to mistakes like dispatching the wrong products. Is that a fair assessment?
Yes, you’ve got it right. The increase in demand has put pressure on the existing process, and that’s
where the errors are creeping in. How would you approach identifying the specific step in the
process that needs improvement?
I’d map out the entire order fulfilment process. I understand that it starts with collating orders from
the app, where each order is logged and processed. Following that, the items for each order are
picked from the warehouse, packed, and prepared for delivery. At this point, the courier
service takes over for the final delivery to the customer. Does that cover everything?
Almost, but think again. Are you missing any crucial steps before package is handed to the courier?
There must be a step where the order ID is mapped to the package. This would involve printing and
attaching a shipping label with the correct order ID to ensure that the right product is delivered to
the correct customer. Is this where the issue lies?
Exactly. The problem arises during the mapping of order IDs to packages. The order IDs are printed
on shipping labels, which are then manually attached to the packages. Due to the manual nature of
this process, errors are happening, leading to the wrong products being sent out.
So, the increase in returned orders is essentially due to manual errors in attaching shipping labels,
causing the wrong orders to be delivered. This is a common issue when manual processes are in
place, especially under increased pressure from higher demand.
Yes, that’s exactly what’s happening. How would you solve this problem?
There are a few potential solutions that come to mind, depending on the retailer's capabilities and
resources. First, we could automate the label printing process:
We could implement a system where each order is assigned a unique barcode or QR code. The
shipping label would be automatically generated and printed based on this code, reducing the
chances of manual errors.
We could integrate automated systems that print and attach the shipping labels directly onto the
packages during the packing process, minimizing human involvement.
For quality control, we could introduce a step where the shipping label is scanned and verified
before the package is dispatched, ensuring that the correct label is attached.
What if they don’t want to use automated codes?
Another approach could be to modify the fulfilment process. Instead of processing multiple orders
simultaneously, the warehouse could focus on completing one order at a time—picking all items for
a single order, packing them, and labelling the package before moving on to the next order. This
would reduce the risk of mixing up items between orders. Setting up specific stations where trained
staff focus solely on attaching labels correctly, with checks in place, could also help reduce errors.
Sounds good. That will be all, thank you.
Unconventional | Retail | Moderate
Increasing returned orders – Interview transcript
Page 2282024-2025

===== PAGE 229 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
The client is an online fashion retailer that has recently noticed a significant increase in returned orders. They have approached you to identify
the root cause of the issue and provide actionable recommendations to resolve it.
Interviewee Notes
• Analyse the reasons for 
apparel/ footwear returns
• Identify stakeholders 
involved in delivery of 
retail products
• Plot the order fulfilment 
process
• Consider different levels 
of capabilities and 
resource availability with 
the retailer while 
recommending solutions
Case Facts
• Recent increase in returned 
orders
• Majority returns owing to 
wrong orders being delivered
• No issues with order 
placement by customer
• No issues with shopping app
• No issues with courier service
• Identify the problem in order 
fulfilment process at retailer’s 
end
• Provide solutions to reduce 
manual errors in attaching 
shipping label
Unconventional | Retail | Moderate
Increasing returned orders
Approach/ Framework
Reasons for increasing returned orders
Product-
related issues
Customer-
related issues
Process-
related issues
Wrong 
product
Product 
mismatch 
(look & feel)
Size misfit
Quality issues
Change in 
preferences
Delivery 
delays
Fulfilment 
issues
Better 
alternatives
Wrong order 
placed by 
customer
Ineffective 
process at 
Retailer’s end
Ineffective 
courier 
service 
App glitches
Order 
aggregation
Pick-up from 
warehouse Packing
Shipping label 
printing & 
attachment
Dispatch
Key Learnings
• It is important to map the end-to-end process (order fulfilment 
process in this case) to identify the root-cause of error. Asking 
clarificatory questions is helpful in this case.
• When a business experiences a surge in demand, it often exposes 
weaknesses in existing processes. The retailer's fulfilment process, 
which worked under normal demand, struggled to scale effectively 
when faced with higher order volumes.
Recommendations
• Barcode/QR Code System
• Automated Label Application
• Double-check Mechanism
• End-to-End Order Fulfillment
• Dedicated Labeling Stations
• Proactive communication with customers
Click here for:  
Panorama Report 1
Panorama Report 2
Page 2292024-2025

===== PAGE 230 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is the governor of a province in Bangladesh. He was recently elected with a strong
majority based on his mandate for change. Education is an integral part of this province. He wants
you to develop a plan to increase the number of children in school in the next three to four
years. How will you proceed?
Sounds interesting. Could you tell me a little bit more about the province? What is the size of the
school-going population and the current enrollment rate?
The population is 50 million, of which 10 million citizens are school-age children. Of these, 8
million are enrolled in school.
Ah, okay. I want to try and understand the underlying cause. You mentioned that 8 million of 10
million children are in school. What is the capacity of schools in the province – how many
students can they accommodate?
All the schools across the country can accommodate up to 15 million students.
So, as I see it, there is no lack of schools in the region. Can I assume that the issue then is in
demand for schooling? Of the 2 million students in school, is there a specific age-group or gender
that has a lower enrollment rate?
Yes. The province has 7 million male students and 3 million female students. Nearly all male
students are enrolled in school, while only 1 million female students are enrolled.
Alright. Is there any specific region where trend has been observed more significantly than
others?
Free education has been subsidized largely but it isn’t free. That is on the agenda of the governor.
Alright. One more thing. I’m assuming that a child’s family bears the cost of education. Since a
family is a unit in this case, could you tell me the average family size?
Sure, a typical family in this province has two earners and three children of school-going age, on
average.
No, not particularly. This has been observed across the province.
Then I’d like to explore why this trend has been observed. I will break down potential factors
into internal and external factors. Internal factors refer to causes within the family because of
which they might not send their girls to school. External causes can be environmental, legal,
political, social, or economic. My hypothesis is that since the trend is observed for many female
students, the factors might be external.
Alright. Could you elaborate further on external factors?
Sure. By external factors, I meant reasons that might make families unwilling or unable to send
their female children to school. I will further divide these factors based on the timeframe of
occurrence – that is, pre, during, and post-sending a child to school.
Pre: One factor is affordability. This includes the opportunity cost and the actual cost of sending
students to school. This also includes added incentives (or lack of). Other factors could be
accessibility, availability, and awareness. Accessibility is the ease with which families can reach
schools, and availability is the presence of schools when required (location and timing).
Awareness is not just about knowledge among the population, but also the connotations from
social factors such as stigma.
During: These factors have to do with the schooling process itself. The time spent in school, the
infrastructure, the total length of schooling, the quality of education, and the peer group play a
role in this.
Post: A potential factor here could be the kind of exit options students have after schooling.
Is there any specific area you’d want me to focus on?
Let’s explore all of them one-by-one.
Children in school – Interview Transcript
Unconventional | Growth Strategy  | Education | Moderate
My hypothesis is that given the size of the family, families aren’t able to send all the children to
school due to economic factors. Maybe they’d like to engage some children in wage-earning labor
instead of sending them to school. Is there any alternative form of employment available to the
female students who aren’t enrolled in school?
Not particularly. Most of them help their mothers with household chores.
Alright. So, there is only the cost of sending children to school. But, given the number of children
per family, families often must do a cost-benefit analysis before deciding which children to send to
school. To test this, I wanted to know a bit more about the opportunities available to students
after they finish schooling. Are these opportunities the same for male and female students?
The opportunities are not the same. Most male students get employed by companies in entry-
level positions, and they can support their families. On the other hand, companies don’t offer jobs
to female students, and their families often get them married off after they reach a certain age.
It seems then that the economic status and the larger social context are creating this issue. Since
families are large, they cannot send all their children to school, despite government schemes.
Moreover, female students don’t find meaningful work post education and cannot compensate for
the cost of schooling. Their families choose to send their male children to school to get jobs and
support the family.
That is correct.
Is there any particular reason why education hasn’t been made free for all students?
Lack of funds, mainly. This is something on the agenda of the governor if he can free up funds
from other areas. Do you have any recommendations apart from making schooling free?
Yes. Before that, I’d like to understand why companies don’t offer jobs to female students.
Like I mentioned, most female students are married off once they reach a certain age. They might
start families of their own and have to take many leaves. Many companies want to hire for the
long term and choose not to hire female candidates at all.
Alright. So, the problem is two-fold – apart from the cost of education, female students cannot
find jobs after schooling. Since the governor wants to accomplish this over four years, a step-wise
approach should be followed.
Firstly, the cost of education should be minimized as much as possible. If possible, education for a
certain age group should be made free. The government can also launch scholarships for female
children who want to continue their education. In the short-run, education for female students
can be subsidized further or made free, if possible.
Secondly, the kind of education provided should also be modified to include vocational training.
This can help students, both male, and female, to engage in meaningful part-time work after they
reach a certain age. This will ease the burden on their families, and more families will choose to
enroll their children in school.
Thirdly, job opportunities must be created for female students after they are done with schooling.
These opportunities can be in the form of reservation in entry-level roles for female students or
the creation of government programs. Though societal norms take time to change, the availability
of options might improve the situation.
While these are being implemented, awareness drives and programs should be launched to help
families understand the long-term benefits of educating their female children.
Sure. So, let’s move on to the factors that families consider before sending their students to
school. As I mentioned, many consider the cost of schooling. What is the economic status of
citizens of this province?
Most of them are below the poverty line.
Are there any government schemes that make education free for children in a particular age
group? That sounds reasonable. Thank you.
Page 2302024-2025

===== PAGE 231 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is the governor of a province Bangladesh. He was recently elected with a strong majority based on his mandate for change. 
Education is an integral part of this province. He wants you to develop a plan to increase the number of children in school in the next three to 
four years
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Check for both supply and 
demand. Problems could 
be on either side.
• Whenever there are 
trends in population, 
segment as much as 
possible based on context-
appropriate segments.
Case Facts
• 8 million out of 10 
million school-age 
children go to school
• Schools can 
accommodate 15 
million students
• All school age boys go 
to school
• Education is subsidised
not free
• Females are not offered 
jobs due to assumption 
that they won’t be able 
to balance family and 
work.
School Attendance
Capacity of Schools Demand
Gender Age Group 
Recommendations
• Cost of education for female students should be minimized as much as possible up to certain age group.
• Launch of scholarships for female children who want to continue their education. In the short -run.
• Vocational training for both male, and female, to engage in meaningful part-time work after they reach a certain age.
• Job opportunities be in the form of reservation in entry-level roles for female students or the creation of government programs.
• Awareness drives and programs should be launched to help families understand the long -term benefits of educating their female children.
Observations/Suggestions
• Whenever factors are broken down into internal and external in unconventional cases, define what the factors are internal to. Here family unit wasn’t defined.
• Start with a hypothesis and try to validate it by asking questions or creating frameworks. The hypothesis doesn’t need to be correct all the time, but it will give the case 
some direction. In this case, it also might’ve helped to break the cost of education into number of children per family times the cost of education.
• Since the interviewer wanted an approach, steps are mentioned. Interviewees can also segment their recommendations based on e ffort and impact before presenting.
Male Female
Internal External
Exit OpportunitiesFamily Education Cost
Low Income
Large size
Subsidised
Not free
Not available
Children in school 
Unconventional | Growth Strategy  | Education | Moderate
Page 2312024-2025

===== PAGE 232 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is ISRO on behalf of the Government of India. They have approached you to propose a 
viable strategy to put an Indian astronaut on the moon.
I understand. Before I start deciding on a strategy on the same, I would like to understand the
problem statement better with a few clarifying questions. What is the timeline for achieving the
objective? Are there any other objectives beyond the primary goal?
So, as per the directives of the prime minister, we need to put an Indian astronaut on the moon by 
2040. Besides the main goal of a successful manned lunar mission, it would help advance India’s space 
technology, foster international collaboration and encourage private sector participation.
Understood. I would break down the goal into 3 parts – a) financial feasibility b) operational roadmap
c) risks and mitigation. In terms of the financial feasibility, since ISRO is a government body, it would
have a part of the stipulated union budget allocated to it. Also, considering national prestige, the
project will have the requisite budget needed for its successful delivery.
That is indeed correct. Can you give a budget estimate for this mission to land an Indian astronaut on
the moon, considering the timelines mentioned?
Okay. Do we have any budget estimates for prior or current projects from ISRO like the Chandrayaan
or Gaganyaan? I can use them to figure out a ballpark for the mission.
It seems like a good approach. We have the numbers for that. The latest Chandrayaan mission cost
about 75M USD while the previous one costed 125 M USD. For the Gaganyaan mission to send an
astronaut to space, it is estimated to cost around 0.5B USD.
Since the Gaganyaan mission costs about 0.5 billion USD, the mission to put an Indian astronaut on
the moon should be in its ballpark. The technologies developed as part of the Gaganyaan mission for
human space flight would be the stepping stones for our mission.
I assume that subsequent missions for human space flight would be a factor in the original mission.
Taking a factor of 0.8 and considering 3 test manned missions to space before a final mission to the
moon, factoring the cost of the Chandrayaan mission, we get 0.4B*3+0.1B ~ 1.3B USD.
Fair enough. Let go ahead with developing a plan for the mission now.
Firstly, I would look at any constraints before we start finalizing the roadmap.
1) ISRO has a much smaller budget as compared to other space organizations like NASA, it would be
important to work on cost effective solutions.
2) We should consider should be development of human-capable launch technology for longer
distance to the moon as well as ensuring safety of the astronauts.
3) We should also consider any international space laws or regulations it needs to adhere to.
Do you wish for me to expand on any of these constraints?
For purpose of the case you can assume that the Government of India will take care of any relevant
international law. How would you tackle the cost constraints compared to other international space
organizations?
ISRO can leverage its existing infrastructure to make incremental changes to its technology to reduce
its costs. It could also focus on developing reusable launch vehicles to help reduce costs during testing.
Moreover, it can collaborate with other space agencies via strategic MOUs and look to partner with
private players in the industry and academic institutions for specialised technology development.
Very interesting observations. Can you breakdown the lifecycle of the project now?
For putting an Indian astronaut on the moon, ISRO will need to develop a long distance human
capable launch vehicles, advanced propulsion systems and life support systems for astronauts. Now to
breakdown the project lifecycle, we can do as follows – a) Preliminary Planning and Research b)
Technology Development and Prototyping c) Testing and Validation d) Final Development and System
Integration e) Mission Launch and Execution.
That covers the major steps of the lifecycle. Since this project is an incrementally built on top of
current projects, can you list down the major steps that would need added focus as part of this
manned lunar mission?
Firstly, for the preliminary research, since this is a first for ISRO, it would be important to
conduct a feasibility study on the technical and logistical fronts and initiate any collaborations or
partnerships we need to pursue. Another major focus area would be testing and validation by
performing subsequent unmanned lunar missions and manned orbital test flights to gather data to
improve the prototypes. It would also help to use simulations to test the prototypes and help
train the astronauts. After testing is completed, ISRO can proceed with the certification of
training for astronauts to shortlist the ones for the actual mission and perform dress rehearsals of
the mission to test all protocols and contingency plans.
These look good to me. Can you walk me through your plan for the actual launch day?
On the final launch day, ISRO must perform final pre-checks for system diagnostics, fuel and
astronaut readiness. All mission control t eam must also ensure they are good to go with
contingencies ready. Once the launch is completed, it will need to initially monitored until it
leaves the earth’s atmosphere until course correction towards the lunar orbit.
Fantastic. Can you think of anything else ISRO should take care post the launch?
Over the subsequent days, the team will need to monitor the shuttle’s progress with data from
the astronauts. On the landing day, it would be important to again go through checks and then
execute the lunar landing manoeuvres. Once the astronauts have landed, they will need assistance
in scoping the moon as per the scientific objectives. Post that, we will need to work on the re-
launch and entry into the earth’s atmosphere and subsequent landing and recovery.
That sounds right. Give me a quick rundown of the risk on the project.
In terms of the risks ISRO should consider the possibility of technical failures – during launch,
landing or in the space suits. This could lead to an additional risk of astronaut safety. All this
could amount to a national uproar and the possibility of reputational damage. Apart from this,
delays in the development of the requisite technologies or any cost overruns would significantly
impact the timelines and budget defined by the project charter.
Can you think of ways ISRO can reduce the risk of danger on the lives of astronauts?
A few strategies ISRO could adopt are to help reduce the risk to the astronauts:
1) Perform risk assessment simulations for every mission phase to identify potential hazards and
develop mitigation strategies and design redundant systems for critical functions.
2) Implement real-time monitoring and diagnostics to detect and address system anomalies
promptly. Conduct rigorous testing of life support systems in space-like conditions.
3) Ensure robust communication systems for continuous contact between the spacecraft and
mission control and develop precise navigation systems to accurately guide the spacecraft
4) Leverage experience and best practices from other spacefaring nations involving joint missions
and shared training exercises to build a comprehensive safety culture.
These are great recommendations. Let’s end the case here!
ISRO Lunar Manned Mission – Interview Transcript
Unconventional | Project Planning and Execution | Space Industry | Moderate
Page 2322024-2025

===== PAGE 233 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Spoilage
Y ou client is ISRO on behalf of the Government of India. They have approached your firm to propose a viable strategy to put an indian astronaut 
on the moon.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Objective: Develop a plan for 
a manned lunar mission by 
2040 at ISRO
• Clarify the timelines and any c 
constraints that need to be 
taken care of before 
developing the roadmap
• Ask for reference data 
wherever needed 
• Understand the project 
lifecycle and industry
• Important to realize that it is 
easier to break down each 
step into smaller sub process 
to analyze them
• Assess risks involving the 
project and figure out 
appropriate mitigation 
strategies.
Case Facts
• The mission needs to be 
completed by 2040
• ISRO has a much smaller 
budget as compared to 
other international space 
organizations. Cost 
effective solutions are 
important.  
• Astronaut safety is highly 
important.
• Strategic partnerships 
suing MOUs with other 
agencies as well as 
collaborations with 
academic institutions and 
private players are helpful.
Recommendations for the client
• The manned lunar mission is estimated to be around 2.3B USD considering the cost of the Chandrayaan and Gaganyaan missions
• Use of cost effective measures to ensure to account for lower ISRO budget by leveraging existing technologies incrementally and strategic partnerships and collaborations
• ISRO will need to develop a long distance human capable launch vehicles, advanced propulsion systems and life support systems for astronauts.
• Main focus areas for the mission are preliminary research and feasibility as well as testing and validations.
Observations/Suggestions
• In case of industries like space where the interviewee might not have context, it is important to ask any clarifying questions or data to help build the case.
• The interviewee could have asked for more data for the budget estimation to give a more closer estimate. On the other hand, the interviewee’s approach to list down sub process as
part of any lifecycle is always recommended for clarity of thought.
ISRO Lunar Manned Mission
Preliminary Planning 
and Research 
Technology 
Development and 
Prototyping 
Testing and 
Validation 
Final Development 
and System 
Integration
Mission Launch 
and Execution
Feasibility Studies
Mission Planning
Partnership 
Development
Human Rated 
Launch Vehicle
Lunar Lander
Habitat Design
Unmanned Test 
Missions
Manned Orbital 
Test Flights
Simulated Lunar 
Missions
Technology 
Integration
Astronaut 
Selection
Technology 
Assessment Life Support Systems
Unconventional | Project Planning and Execution | Space Industry | Moderate
Risks
Technical Project Delays
Reputational 
Damage
Astronaut Safety
Funding Strategy Navigation and 
Communication
Mission Dress 
Rehearsals
Mission Preparations
Mission Launch and 
Lunar Transit
Lunar Landing and 
Surface Operations
Earth Return
Page 2332024-2025

===== PAGE 234 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Bollywood superstar investing in Pro Kabaddi – Interview Transcript
Unconventional case | Investment decision | Entertainment/Bollywood with Sports | Moderate
Okay. Basis my analysis, revenue streams for the franchise may be as under –
• Ticket revenue: This may not be much but would be a good indictor of the actual audience 
support in the franchise and can be a metric for building good social following;
• Non ticket revenue: I believe this would represent major proportion of the revenue. The 
streams may be advertisement revenue, prize money (depending upon the final standing of 
the franchise in the table), merchandise sale (will lead to increase in fanbase) and mass-media 
reach (this would benefit our client’s acting career as well).
Would you like to analyse more on the Revenue streams?
Sure. With reference to Sponsorships, I believe we can further get into event specific 
sponsorships, social media sponsorships (on the website or if any team app). I am not entirely 
sure about the media rights of the sports. Is it fair to say that we won’t have control over it?
Broadcasting and streaming rights are sold by the federation on an overall basis and then the 
teams get a share of it based on viewership. You need not get into more detail about it. Please 
continue you Revenue analysis.
I would like to move on to Revenue.
Please do.
Fair enough. Do you want to think more about costs or move on to Revenue?
Noted. Another revenue stream which can be carved out are partnerships with local city schools 
and colleges. This will open a younger and a loyal fanbase for the future at a grassroot level which 
will also increase awareness about the sport. Lastly, membership programs may be initiated for 
fanbase which will keep the engagement ongoing.
You are on the right track. A franchise has lots of different revenue as well as cost streams. 
Appealing to younger audience who have vigour will help the franchise. Now that you know the 
various verticals of a Pro-Kabaddi franchise, can you provide your final recommendations to your 
client with reference to his objectives.
Sure, I would like to distinguish between financials and non-financial metrics.
• From financial viewpoint, I would suggest that investing would bring in a lot of different 
revenue streams to the client. Since it’s a growing sport, the potential appears to be huge. 
Also, it will diversify the client’s portfolio. However, if the bubble bursts, then the losses 
might be slightly difficult to recover – though this possibility seems low at this point. More 
research is required on existing team owners and their metrics
• From non-financial viewpoint, I would suggest that the investment would bring in lots of 
synergy benefits to the client. It will increase the client’s viewership in untapped tier II and 
tier III cities and help the client come across as a social icon who promotes local/ home-
grown sports. However, try to figure out the roadblock of time/ resources that the client can 
devote to the investments since the acting career is still ongoing and client likes to have 
hands-on experiences in sports investments
Let’s end here. Thank you. 
Sure. A few points about cost may be as under –
• Players purchase cost: A big focus would be on the players in the franchise – player 
acquisition may be through the auction table where the client may have a relatively higher 
budget if they are a new team and no retained players.
• Coaching cost: Coaching staff to be hired with head coach, dietician, fitness coaches, etc.
• Stadium/ merchandise cost: Next, depending on the city in which franchise is set-up, stadium 
would need to be booked along with merchandise costs.
• Sponsorships: Another cost would be the marketing of the franchise and finding sponsors. 
Though I believe our client may leverage upon its industry contacts
You may continue – the client has not analysed the costs fully.
The client is engaged in movies which are mostly watched in tier I cities and has a major
disconnect with tier II and tier III cities.
Excellent! I think we can draw upon the investment in league and increase the client’s viewership
base in tier II & tier III cities also. Moving on, I would like to analyse the different costs associated
with the investment. Has the client analysed the same?
This is interesting! I understand promoting our own brand through the franchise can provide a
great benefit. Moving on, can I understand the viewership structure of the Pro-Kabaddi league? Is
the viewership restricted to tier I cities or tier II and III cities?
The viewership is mostly dominated by tier II and III cities since Kabaddi is a domestic sport
which is still finding its ground in tier I cities.
Sure, what about the viewership base of our client’s movies? Is the client engaged in “mass”
movies or “class” movies?
Your client is a Bollywood film superstar. The client is fascinated by the Pro-Kabaddi league in 
India. However, the client is hesitant whether he should invest in the league or not and has now 
come to you for your advice.
It would be great if I can get clarity regarding our client’s objective. Why does it want to invest in 
a completely foreign field? Is it because other industry giants are also interested in the field?
The client’s primary objective is to make money. Client is also a sports enthusiast and already 
owns a team in the Indian Super League, the football league.
Oh, okay. So, the client is driven by both financial and non-financial objectives. Moving on, it 
would help if something more can be known regarding the client – such case what is its age? How 
is the financial situation of the client?
The client is approaching 40s and is an established superstar in the industry. So, you can assume 
that the client has sufficient financial backing to pursue to investment. However, please note that 
the ISL investment may throw in losses at some point due to declining viewership.
Noted. Would it be fair to assume that the viewership of Pro-Kabaddi league may also get 
affected in the long term since India’s viewership is very cricket heavy?
Pro-Kabaddi league is a growing sport, and its viewership is consistently on the rise. It is 2nd most 
watched sports league in India after IPL – so you need not worry about its viewership.
Okay. Now that I have understood the client’s objective, I would like to understand whether this 
investment would be a primary or secondary investment?
The client is not concerned about the initial investment. It is aware that there would be a huge 
initial investment outlay.
Oh Okay, to further understand the client I would like to know whether the client has 
considered costs after the initial outlay? Does the client have a management team to look after all 
these investments?
The client may not be aware of the future costs – you may explore upon that aspect. While the 
client does have a management team, sports is close to his heart and he likes to get a first hand
experiences in his sports investment.
Understood. Is it fair to assume that the client shall continue with its acting projects while making 
these investments? 
The client does plan to continue on its acting career.
Noted. Can we use the investment in Pro-Kabaddi league as a platform to promote the upcoming 
movies of the client? Or the Kabaddi federation places certain restrictions on the same?
Great question! There are no such restrictions in place. The federation is only concerned about 
the promotion of Kabaddi as a household sport and hence has given a free hand to owners. In 
fact, several other owners do promote their brands through their teams.
Page 2342024-2025

===== PAGE 235 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Recommendations
• From financial viewpoint: Different revenue streams may be available to the client. Since it’s a growing sport, the potential appears to be huge. Also, it will diversify the client’s portfolio. However, if 
the bubble bursts, then the losses might be slightly difficult to recover – though this possibility seems low at this point. Do more research on existing team owners and their metrics
• From non-financial viewpoint: Lots of synergy benefits to the client. Increase client’s viewership in untapped tier II and tier III cities and help come across as a social icon (promotes local/ home-
grown sports). Try to figure out the roadblock of time/ resources the client can devote since the acting career is still ongo ing and client likes to have hands-on experiences in sports investments
Key Learnings
• Key to understand the nook & crook of your financial metrics by broadening your thinking horizons
• Another way to drive the case could have been by asking about the financial metrics of existing metrics and how their investm ents have fared
• Paramount to incorporate synergy benefits after diversifying your portfolio
Your client is a Bollywood film superstar. The client is fascinated by the Pro-Kabaddi league in India. However, the client is hesitant whether he should invest
in the league or not and has now come to you for your advice.
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Objective of the client should 
be understood from all 
metrics – whether it be 
financial or non-financial
• Enquire about different 
streams of revenue & costs 
in more detail instead of 
looking from top
• It is important to understand 
the synergy benefits of a new 
investment with the client’s 
existing businesses/ 
investments
• Present a holistic point of 
view in the recommendations 
keeping in mind both the 
negative and the positive 
points
Case Facts
• Client is a sports 
enthusiast with existing 
investments in football
• Is approaching 40s and 
has considerable 
financial backing
• Likes a hands-on 
approach but has a 
management team to 
handle everything and 
acting career to tend to
• Has not thought 
through the costs 
involved in the decision
• Can leverage his acting 
business in making said 
investment
Analysis of investment objectives
Financial
(economic objective) Non-financial
Pros
Bollywood superstar investing in Pro Kabaddi
Cons
Non-ticket 
revenue
Ticket 
revenue
Advertisement Prize 
money Merchandise
High ad-revenue
Diversification of 
portfolio
Consistent 
source of income
Mass-media
Brand 
equity Marketing Movie 
promotions
Social cause 
(promoting 
domestic sport)
Pros Cons
Huge investment
Probability of 
recoveries
Pros Cons
Rise in 
Expectations
Associated 
with social 
image
Brand image builds
Free publicity/ 
movie promotions
Appeal to wider 
audience Significant time/ effort 
required
Financial spend 
required
Unconventional case | Investment decision | Entertainment/Bollywood with Sports | Moderate
Page 2352024-2025

===== PAGE 236 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a private-sector Indian bank with a strong gold loan portfolio. They are looking to
expand their business by digitising their gold loan process end to end. How would you navigate
this process?
I would like to ask some preliminary questions. What are the reasons that the client is pursuing
this shift of digitisation?
The firm is facing strong competition from competing NBFCs and fintech companies that are
offering digitised services, making it difficult to compete with using current services.
Understood. Also, what is it about the new NBFC offerings that the customers are drawn
towards, the improved operational efficiency, enhanced customer experience, or something else?
The goal is to address both operational efficiency and customer experience, while also being
competitive in a changing market.
Understood, could you please tell me if there are any particular customer demographics that are
adopting the digital solutions faster?
The customer demographics for gold loans are are typically focused towards the rural and semi
urban populations and branches. The loans are primarily sought by low- and middle-income
households and across a variety of occupational backgrounds. Of these, the younger working
populations are trending to adopt new age solutions faster.
All noted. Further, could you elaborate on the current gold loan process, perhaps what the key
steps are?
The current gold loan process is carried out in the following key steps: loan application, gold 
valuation, document verification, loan approval, gold deposit, disbursement, payments and closure.
Thank you. What are the specific pain points that the bank is trying to improve upon with this
digitisation?
The current process requires the customer to physically visit the branches several times and
results in an inconvenience for them. On the bank’s end, the process leaves much room for
delays and inefficiencies.
Understood. I would conduct some initial market analysis on customers and the efficiencies of 
current processes as an initial step. 
Then I would approach this digitisation at each step of the loan process:
1. Loan Application – Create online application platform which gives details as well
2. Gold Valuation – Mobile units that visit the customers for gold purity check and valuation
3. Document Verification – Speed up using online KYC, digital and e-signatures
4. Loan Approval – Automated filtering and approvals to reduce human delays in process
5. Gold Deposit – Setup of pickup units that can be tracked for safekeeping
6. Disbursement – Instant bank account transfer once other steps are completed
7. Payments – Automated reminders on SMS/Email, a new dashboard for payment summary
8. Closure – Secure delivery of the gold back to customer, with an online confirmation
The steps sound comprehensive, what is this initial market analysis going to consist of?
For Analysis, I will be focusing on:
• Customer Segmentation - Analysis of different customer segments (rural, urban, semi-urban), 
digital literacy and trust in technology
• Competitive Landscape - Investigate offerings from competitors that have already digitized 
their processes and identify key features.
• Current Process Evaluation - Identify and document the primary bottlenecks causing issues in 
the current gold loan process and understand customer pains.
How would you procure the data for this analysis?
For this analysis I would utilise:
Primary Data - in the form of surveys and focus groups to understand current customers
Digitising Gold Loans – Interview Transcript
Unconventional | BFSI | Challenging
Secondary Data – market reports, competitor benchmarking and service review
Moving on, what are the major challenges or risks that may arise as part of this digitisation 
strategy?
The major challenges can be understood in two categories:
Internal to the Bank
1. Technology Integration – Ensuring that all the new technology being added works with the
existing systems and is appropriate for the use cases in a banking context.
2. Secure Valuation and Handling of Gold - The bank’s own gold storage and purity checks
may be complex to change into a portable service while maintaining the accuracy and safety.
3. Operational Training – It may be a lengthy or initially expensive process to train the staff to
the new process. New teams might be needed for gold purity checks and valuation.
External to the Bank
1. Cyber Security and Data Protection – With such sensitive information being collected, the
risk of data leaks and external threats become even more important to consider.
2. Regulatory Compliance – Approaching novel methods in a highly regulated sector such as
banking requires strict adherence to guidelines set by the authorities (here, RBI). It may be
challenging to navigate all the rules and ensure the changes don’t hit any major roadblocks.
3. Brand Repositioning– Consumers may hesitate or struggle to adapt to the digital process.
The bank would need to reposition its brand to highlight these changes being brought on.
Those all seem important; how would you address these challenges?
I would take the following steps to tackle these challenges:
Internal Challenges
1. Technology Integration – Deeply research competitor technology systems to gauge digital
practices important the banking sector. Ensure that the integration with technology is not
impeding on any process regulations or standard practices and maintains synergy.
2. Gold Valuation – Use of newer technologies and a stringent standard of employee training
and documentation. Consistent reports must be filed for each step of the process.
3. Operational Changes – Maintaining a hybrid approach and enacting digitisation gradually.
External Challenges
1. Cyber Security- Partner with cybersecurity experts to ensure proper data protection
policies. Create and maintain diligent standards to avoid fraud risks. Conduct training
programs for employees so they can spot irregularities during checks.
2. Regulatory Compliance – Maintain a strong legal counsel and regularly review updating RBI
statutes and regulations.
3. Brand Repositioning & Customer Adoption – Creating a strong set of tutorial content in
local languages to onboard customers. Rebrand to include modern and digital themes.
Adding promotional rates and discounts to encourage customers to try their first digital
loan applications.
The challenge of implementing gold valuation seems complex and may impact profitability, how
should the client proceed?
Two key steps can help ease this aspect:
• Doing a Cost Benefit Analysis of the initial costs that will go into setting up the new appraisal
system and weighing them against the improved profits the increased efficiency will provide.
• Going for a phased implementation where a pilot testing process shows us the effectivity of
the new system before it is completely rolled out.
Those suggestions sound reasonable. Let us end here, thank you.
Page 2362024-2025

===== PAGE 237 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Your client is a private-sector Indian bank with a strong gold loan portfolio. They are looking to expand on their business by digitizing their
gold loan process end to end.
Customer Journey FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• Think about each of the 
steps in the loan process 
individually.
• Think of both customer 
convenience and 
important security 
measures
• Banking needs high level of 
care and scrutiny for each 
possibility
• Digitisation will pose initial 
charges but will pay off 
with efficiency and 
competitive advantages
• Ease of implementation 
would be different for 
different steps.
Digitising Gold Loans
Recommendations
• Approach each step for digitisation with its own importance, giving precedence to large tasks such as setting up home gold pu rity and valuation checks.
• Invest heavily into digital fraud protection setups as they will form the basis for trust in the new process. 
• Move towards a Hybrid approach first, maintaining traditional gold loan processing as well to ease customers into the transit ion.
Observations / Suggestions
• Even if some less significant, it is important to consider how every step of a process may be affected by a change like digit isation.
• Banking industry is highly regulated, and it must be understood that every decision involves sensitive data and practices. Ma jor decisions like digitisation will involve 
heavy research and compliance consultation.
Unconventional | BFSI | Challenging
Loan 
Application
Gold 
Valuation
Document 
Verification
Loan 
Approval Gold Deposit Disbursement Payments Loan 
Closure
Online 
Platform
Home Visit 
Valuation
KYC/ 
E-Signatures
Automated 
Filters
Secure Gold 
Pickup
Instant Bank 
Transfer
Automated
Reminders
Secure, 
Confirmed 
Delivery
Primary Challenges & Solutions
Fraud 
Protection
Operational 
TrainingGold Handling Brand 
Repositioning
Regulatory 
Compliance
Cybersecurity 
Partnership
Gradual 
Transition
Technologies & 
strict reporting
Modern 
Branding &
Tutorials
Regular legal 
overview
Challenges Internal to the Bank Challenges External to the Bank
Technology 
Integration
Research & 
Synergy 
Click here for Panorama Report!
Page 2372024-2025

===== PAGE 238 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Green Skill India – Interview Transcript
Unconventional | Public Policy | Moderate
One more way could be entering into public-private partnerships, for sustainable development
projects that will address dual objectives of giving people jobs as well as moving towards
sustainability.
Very well. Now, the client would also like to know the approximate reach of its program. How 
would you go about it.
By reach, do we mean the number of people who would be willing to join the program, or the 
population we are able to cater. 
Assume that we can cater to all the people who are willing to join the program.
Right, so we can go about it in 2 different ways. Private or Public sector employment. The
government could identify labour requirements in public sector companies and provide jobs or
they could partner with private companies, that need such employees or other private companies
that have a philanthropic agenda as well to interview the trainees and give them jobs.
Are there any other ways?
Moving on to imparting education, the elements that need to be looked at are infrastructure,
human resources and study material. Infrastructure will include accessible training centers with
necessary equipment. Human resources need to be made available on preferably full time or
otherwise part time basis, which would require hiring and training qualified instructors proficient
in green skills. Developing comprehensive, up-to-date study materials aligned with industry
standards will be an important determinant. Ways need to be found for collaboration with
industry experts for curriculum development and continuous instructor training.
Makes sense. What about the last steps, helping them find jobs.
Sure, to guestimate the total number of people interested in the program, we can segment the
population into urban, suburban, and rural areas, assuming a 30%, 30% and 40% distribution
respectively. We can filter this population by age group, targeting individuals aged 18-35, who
form approximately 35% of the population. Focusing on those with secondary school literacy, we
would typically get around 70% in urban, 50% in suburban, and 30% in rural areas. Next,
considering the unemployment rate, roughly 10% across these regions, indicating those actively
looking for jobs and from the remaining, roughly 40% who would be interested in upskilling for
better jobs, we could get the people interested in the program. Here, I assume that people don’t
necessarily need to be interested in green skills and sustainability, since they might be focusing on
the eventual employment potential.
Fair assumption, however, if the client wants you to further factor in the interest level as well,
then how would you go about it?
Definitely, in that case I would take a greater proportion of the unemployed section,
approximately 75% and a smaller proportion, approximately 15-20% rather than 40% who would
be willing to invest their time owing to the potential they see in green skills.
Alright. Let’s stop here. Well done. Thank you. 
Another way to do this is to make cost of living affordable while training. This can be approached
in 2 ways, either prevent the need for people to stay away from homes which is difficult owing to
the widely scattered population or providing affordable stay near classes, for example, liaising
with hostels.
Fair point.
While onboarding, we need to decide whether the program is voluntary, i.e., all those who wish
to get sustainable jobs can join, or selection-based, for which the applicants must appear for an
exam, fill an evaluative and eliminative form, or write an essay. Once this decision is made, to
ensure we get maximum applications, we need to work on improving awareness, accessibility, and
affordability of applications.
Can you elaborate on that?
Sure, we need to decide on the method of promotion, whether online or offline, through print
media or television, etc. Based on the target population, online promotion, including social media
advertisements is an effective way. Accessibility here refers to ease of application as well
attending the classes, the application can be online as well as offline to make it easy as well as not
restrict it to only those who have a smartphone. Classes need to be launched at multiple
locations for more people to apply. Additionally, the cost of application and the fees for the
program, if any, should be affordable to most of the population.
Do you suggest that there should be a fees in the program?
Oh okay, I see there are 3 major aspects to this case, product development, target population,
and feasibility studies. Is there a pre-determined product or target population.
Let's start with the problem statement. Your client is the Government of India, and they want to
start a Green Skilling Program. How should they go about it?
Thank you for the problem statement. To begin, I would like to understand the objectives and
goals of the Green Skilling Program. Could you provide some insights into what the government
aims to achieve with this initiative?
The primary objective is to equip the workforce with the skills necessary for green jobs, promote
sustainability, and support the transition to a green economy. This involves skilling individuals in
areas such as renewable energy, sustainable agriculture, waste management, and energy efficiency.
Okay, are there any budgetary or time constraints to be considered?
No there are none yet, but they would like to launch it as soon as possible.
No, there is no predetermined product or target population. The client would like you to suggest
how they should they go about it.
All right, regarding the product, the decisions that need to be made are whether the skills shall be
hard skills, that are directly useful for employment or soft skills that everyone should have. Also,
whether the skills will be taught in an offline format or an online format.
So, the client is focusing on hard skills to directly increase green jobs and sustainability in the
economy.
Okay, so if the skills that need to be taught are hard, an offline format should be undertaken to
ensure more commitment to training and access to wider population. Additionally, the target
market shall be the working population, with a secondary education, in urban sub-urban as well as
rural areas especially in the low-income or lower-middle-income category.
Sounds fair, let’s move on to the feasibility studies.
For feasibility, we need to assess both financial and operational aspects. Financial feasibility
includes understanding the budget, costs involved, and funding sources. Operational feasibility
covers the implementation strategy, resources required, and potential challenges. Since there are
no budgetary constraints, the operational feasibility seems to be a more important consideration
here.
Let’s go ahead with operational feasibility then.
Sure, for this purpose, I would like to draw the value chain for the program. There would be 3
main stages involved in the process, onboarding of the trainees, imparting education and helping
them find jobs. We can look at the steps, resource requirements and potential challenges for
each of these separately.
Alright, go ahead.
It can depend on the approach the client decides to take on the program, imposing a fee can be
useful in ensuring commitment and promoting completion of the program, another way to do this
could be paying a small amount to the trainees, similar to a stipend.
Good, that’s a fair point. Assume no fees or stipend is imposed by the client. What other 
measures can be taken to make the program affordable.
Page 2382024-2025

===== PAGE 239 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Recommendations
• Short term: a) The classes should be held in offline format for all people in the working population with secondary school li teracy.
b) Online promotion and awareness campaign and use of social media to invite more applications, that should be online as well as offline.
• Long term:  a) Liaising with hostels for affordable stay of trainees away from homes.
b) Collaboration with industry experts for curriculum development and continuous instructor training to maintain quality of teaching.    
Key Learnings
• It is important to understand the objective, product and the customer base. 
• Public Private Partnership is an important means for social welfare projects.
• Avoid broad assumptions regarding interest levels of population.
Your client is the Government of India, and they want to start a Green Skilling Program. How should they go about it?
Approach/ FrameworkInterviewee Notes
• It is important to understand 
the terminology, i.e., what is 
green skill, whether it 
includes hard or soft skills, 
etc.
• The objective of the client 
needs to be identified, along 
with the time and budgetary 
constraints.
• Enquire about the product, 
i.e. the skill program, how 
are the skills being imparted; 
and the population we are 
targeting, geographically as 
well as demographically.
• There are no competitors in 
this scenario and the history 
of client is irrelevant.
• Here the interviewer asks 
the interviewee to focus on 
feasibility. Also, financial 
feasibility is not as important.
Case Facts
• Green skills are skills 
necessary for green jobs; 
focus on hard skills.
• Objective is social welfare 
and sustainability; there 
are no budget or time 
constraints.
• Hard skills hence classes 
should be in offline 
format.
• Target population is 
urban, rural and suburban, 
in the working age group 
with secondary school 
literacy.
Feasibility
Financial 
Feasibility
Operational 
Feasibility
Onboarding Price/pump
Selection Selection
Green Skill India
Number of 
pumps/client
Public 
Sector
Private 
Sector
Public Private 
Partnership
Examination
Awareness Affordability
Essay
Form
Accessibility
Infrastructure
Study 
Material
Human 
Resource
Full-Time Part-Time
Unconventional | Public Policy | Moderate
Page 2392024-2025

===== PAGE 240 =====

Guesstimates

===== PAGE 241 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
A guesstimate is a combination of guess and estimate. Solving a guesstimate involves using a structured approach to reach the solution while making
sound assumptions, performing back-of-the-envelope calculations and communicating the process effectively during an interview.
Guesstimates – An Introduction
Top-Down Approach
This approach starts with a large set such as total
population and then works on adding different splits
and filters making reasonable assumptions to reach to
an estimate.
Bottom-Up Approach
This approach starts with forming an estimate for a
specific representative unit and later extrapolating
with reasonable assumptions to reach to an estimate.
Demand Approach
This approach for market sizing is based on
estimating the number of customers in the target
market and units consumed per customer in a given
time period.
Supply Approach
This approach for market sizing uses the supply value
chain to estimate production quantity based on raw
materials or number of factories and further
extrapolating.
Market Sizing
This type of guesstimates involve
estimation of size of a market or
revenue of a company. This is
solved by both estimation of
quantity and selection of price for
each type of product.
Unconventional
This type of guesstimates may not
have a defined structure. Such
guesstimates are typically asked in
interviews to test the approach
rather than the specific
calculations.
When, guesstimates are solved by using top-down approach, following
are various splits commonly used to drill down –
• Rural-Urban Split: Geography based approach
• Gender Split: Split between male and female
• Age Split: Split the population into various age ranges
• Income Split: Based on individual or household income
Types of Guesstimates Splits & Filters
Methodology Demand & Supply Approach
Page 2412024-2025

===== PAGE 242 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Estimate the annual demand for Gold Flake cigarettes in Mumbai
• This has been solved using the Top-Down approach
• Begin by estimating the total 
market for cigarettes in Mumbai
• Market Share of Gold Flake in 
Mumbai would be like the Market 
Share in other metro cities such as 
Delhi and Bangalore
• Segment the population into those 
of Smoking Age (Adults) and those 
not of Smoking Age (Children)
Interviewee Notes Facts/Assumptions Approach/Framework
Observations/Inferences
• Market Share for Gold Flake is 20% 
in Delhi and 22% in Bangalore
• Assume that 50% of Adults smoke 
cigarettes
• Assume average cigarette 
consumption of 1 Pack/Day
• Each pack has 20 cigarettes
1 Pack/Day 365 Days 20 Cigs/Pack
7.5 Mn
Population of 
Mumbai (20 Mn) 
Of Smoking Age 
(75%) (15 Mn)
Not of Smoking Age 
(25%) (5 Mn)
Smokers (50%) 
(7.5 Mn)
Non-Smokers (50%) 
(7.5 Mn)
7.5 Mn * 365 * 20 = 54,750 Mn Cigs/Year
Approx. Market Share of Gold Flake = 20% 
Demand for Gold Flake = 0.2 *  54,750 Mn = 10,950 Mn Cigs/Year
Guesstimate 1
Page 2422024-2025

===== PAGE 243 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Estimate the duration of ads streamed on YouTube daily
• First create the structure, and then put numbers to it
• If the users could be bifurcated into premium and non premium, then different
• Explore if the ad length could vary as per video length and whether a person is a premium account-holder
• Users are divided based on 
whether they will encounter ads.
• They are further categorized them 
based on the length of videos 
streamed. 
• The ads are bifurcated into 3 types: 
Non-Skippable (50%), Skippable and 
Skipped (40%), Skippable and Not 
Skipped (10%)
• Day Agnostic - Weekend and 
Weekday treated similarly
• Bifurcation of the total users in 
Premium and Non – premium users
Interviewee Notes Facts/Assumptions Approach/Framework
Observations/Inferences
• Assuming 2 Bn monthly active users 
on YouTube. 50% of  these use 
YouTube daily
• Videos with length less than 8 mins 
(Short Videos) only has one ad 
while Long Videos have 2 ads
• Assume that 50% users streamed 
video with an ad
• Users prefer Shorter Videos (Less 
than 8 mins) (60%) over Longer 
Videos (More than 8 mins) (40%)
• Assume that each user watches only 
1 video per day
• People can use Ad Blockers to 
avoid watching ads 8050 Mn Seconds
People using Ad Blockers
(30%) (300 Mn)
People Not using Ad Blockers
(50%) (500 Mn)
Monthly Actives 
(2 Bn)
Daily Users 
(50%) (1 Bn)
Premium Users (20%) 
(200 Mn)
Guesstimate 2
Non - Premium Users 
(80%) (800 Mn)
Non- Skippable 
50% * 1 * 15s = 2250 Mn S
Non- Skippable 
50% * 2 * 15s = 3000 Mn S
Skippable & Skipped
40% * 1 * 5s = 600 Mn S
Skippable & Skipped
40% * 2 * 5s = 800 Mn S
Skippable & Not Skipped
10% * 1 * 20s = 600 Mn S
Skippable & Not Skipped
10% * 2 * 20s = 800 Mn S
Short Videos
(60%) (300 Mn)
Long Videos
(40%) (200 Mn)
Page 2432024-2025

===== PAGE 244 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Estimate the number of Injections administered in Ahmedabad
Guesstimate 3
Approach / Framework
• Neither all bricks are red in the main 
campus, nor all bricks are grey in the 
new campus.
• There are more red bricks in main 
campus and less in new campus.
• A building can constitute both bricks.
• Assume units to be ‘m’ for lengths, 
‘m^2’ for areas and ‘m^3’ for volumes.
Observations / Suggestions
• Another approach involves calculating the surface area and multiplying it with # bricks per unit area. Do keep in mind to not consider area of both sides of the wall.
• Storey wall volume includes roof and excludes base, to avoid double counting. Don’t include %door/window in roofs; Assuming building s as cuboids may be inaccurate
Parameters 
Small-Sized 
Building Area 
(40% = 32K)
Middle-Sized 
Building Area 
(40% = 32K)
Large-Sized 
Building Area 
(20% = 16K)
Storey size: L/B/H 30/30/3 m 40/40/3 m 50/50/3 m
# buildings (Area / LB) 36 20 6
# storeys per building 1 3 6
Storey wall volume 238 m^3 397 m^3 596 m^3
% of red bricks in walls 100% 100% 20%
# red bricks 4.22M 11.90M 2.28M
Main Campus
(50% area = 200K)
Total # Red Bricks = # Red Bricks in Main Campus + # Red Bricks in New Campus
=  (4.22 + 11.90 + 2.28)M + (0.15 + 2.23 + 3.43)M
~ 24.2M = 2.42 crores
Estimate the number of red bricks in IIM Ahmedabad
Facts/Assumptions
• Total campus area is 400000 m^2; 
50-50% in main & new campus.
• Building area in main campus: 40%.
• Building area in new campus: 60%.
• A storey is assumed to be a cuboid .
• Building’s brick wall thickness is 0.2m.
• Wall volume per storey includes 
volume of 4 walls and a roof.
• Brick (in m): 0.2/0.1/0.1 (L/B/H). 
• Wall % doors/windows/others is 20%
• # red bricks in boundary is 
insignificant compared to total bricks.
Interviewee Notes
IIM Ahmedabad
(Area: 400K)
Total Building Area 
(40% area = 80K)
Total Building Area 
(60% area = 120K)
New Campus
(50% area = 200K)
# red bricks = red wall volume / brick volume
= (total wall volume * % red) / brick volume = (# buildings * # storeys per building * storey wall volume * % red) / brick volume
where storey wall volume = (L * B + 2 * H * (L + B)) * Wall Thickness * (1 - % doors/windows/others)
Parameters 
Small-Sized 
Building Area 
(10% = 12K)
Middle-Sized 
Building Area 
(50% = 60K)
Large-Sized 
Building Area 
(40% = 48K)
Storey size: L/B/H 30/30/3 m 40/40/3 m 50/50/3 m
# buildings (Area / LB) 13 38 19
# storeys per building 1 3 6
Storey wall volume 238 m^3 397 m^3 596 m^3
% of red bricks in walls 10% 10% 10%
# red bricks 0.15M 2.23M 3.43M
Brick Parameters Value
Length (L) 0.2m (20cm)
Breadth (B) 0.1m (10cm)
Height (H) 0.1m (10cm)
Volume = L * B * H 0.002 m^3
Page 2442024-2025

===== PAGE 245 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Estimate the number of pairs of shoes sold in Mumbai daily
• Life of shoe has been assumed to be constant in an income category. It is dependent on the desire and need (due to wear and t ear) to change 
• Sanity Check from supply side: Number of shoes sold by a shop in a day ~5-10 (avg. 8) and area of Mumbai  ~600 sq km
• Number of footwear shops in Mumbai per sq km = 35000/8/600 = ~ 7 (reasonable)
• On an average, an upper-class person buys a shoe in ~8 months, middle class person in ~13 months, lower middle class in ~26 mont hs
• Out of the 12.78mn shoes bought in Mumbai in a year, 3.13mn (25%) is bought by the upper class which shows the market size fo r high end branded shoes in a city 
like Mumbai
Interviewee Notes Facts/Assumptions
Observations/Inferences
Distribution 
by Income
Distribution by Gender & 
Age
Avg. Pairs 
of Shoes 
Owned
Life of 
Shoes 
(Years)
Pairs of Shoes 
bought per year
Total 
Populatio
n of 
Mumbai 
(20mn)
Upper 
Class (10%)
2mn
Men (35%) - 0.7mn 5
3
1.17mn
Women (35%) - 0.7mn 5 1.17mn
Kids (30%) - 0.6mn 4 0.80mn
Middle 
Class (30%)
6mn
Men (35%) - 2.1mn 4
4
2.10mn
Women (35%) - 2.1mn 4 2.10mn
Kids (30%) - 1.8mn 3 1.35mn
Lower 
Middle 
Class (40%)  
8mn
Men (35%) - 2.8mn 3
5
1.68mn
Women (35%) - 2.8mn 2 1.12mn
Kids (30%) - 2.4mn 2 0.96mn
Below 
Poverty 
Line (20%)
4mn
Men (30%) - 1.2mn 1
6
0.20mn
Women (30%) - 1.2mn 0 0
Kids (40%) - 1.6mn 0.5 0.13mn
• Only covered shoes are 
considered; not including 
footwear like slippers, flip 
flops, crocs, etc.
• Shoes can be categorized 
based on usage: Office 
wear/formal, school shoes 
etc. Every population 
category will have a 
combination of these based 
on income and need
• BPL population has the 
lowest number of shoes per 
person and highest life of 
shoe
• Kids are the population <15 
years
• Estimate by finding the 
total number of shoes 
worn by people in 
Mumbai
• Segment the total 
population based on 
income, gender and age
• Consider appropriate 
number of pairs of shoes 
owned by people in each 
category and their 
expected life
• Assume an average day of 
shopping (not affected by 
weekends, holidays, sales, 
etc.)
Pairs of shoes bought in 1 year = Population * Avg. Pairs of shoes owned / Life of shoes
Total number of shoes bought in Mumbai in 1 year = 12.78mn
Total number of shoes bought in 1 day = 12.78mn/365 = ~ 35k
Approach/Framework
Guesstimate 4
Page 2452024-2025

===== PAGE 246 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Estimate the size of the Home Renovation Market in Hyderabad
• Population of Hyderabad is 10M
• Only considering the residential
market where the customer is
directly getting the work done
• Average Household Size = 4
• Target Segments: Middle Class 
(MC), Upper Middle Class (UMC) 
and Upper Class (UC)
• Renovation Cycle: Years after
which renovation takes place is 15
for MC, 12 for UMC and 10 for UC
• Average House Price: Rs. 25L for
MC, Rs. 75L for UMC and Rs. 150L
for UC
• Renovation Spend as a % of House
Price: 6% (MC), 8% (UMC) and
10% (UC)
Interviewee Notes Approach/Framework
Households (2.5M)
Population (10M)
UMC (10%) 
250K
UC (5%) 
125K
MC (30%) 
750K
LMC (35%) 
875K
BPL (20%) 
500K
MC UMC UC
Number of Houses 750K 250K 125K
Renovation Cycle (Years) 15 12 10
Number of Houses for Renovation Per Year 750K/15 = 50K 250K/12 = 
20.8K
125K/10 = 
12.5K
Average House Price Rs. 25L Rs. 75L Rs. 150L
Renovation Spend % 6% 8% 10%
Renovation Expenditure Per House Rs. 1.5L Rs. 6L Rs. 15L
Renovation Market Rs. 750 Cr Rs. 1250 Cr Rs. 1880 Cr
Market Size = Rs. 3880 Cr
Guesstimate 5
Page 2462024-2025

===== PAGE 247 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Estimate the size of the Maternity Wear Market in India
• Single pregnancies only – no twins/ triplets
• 50% of India’s population is female.
• Out of the Female population, 40% is of 
Age group 18 – 50 out of which, 
approximately 70% are married
• At the given point in time, 15% of married 
women are pregnant and expecting a baby
• Product used only for 1 birth cycle – no 
reuse from the previous births
• 33% babies born in Urban and 67% born in 
Rural
• Very limited Rural demand. Assumed as 2% 
of Urban demand
• Urban Upper-Income Group = 10%, Urban 
Middle-Income Group = 50% and Urban 
Lower-Income Group = 40%
• Penetration of 50% for Urban UIG, 20% for 
Urban MIG
• Assume only 1 variety of garment in the 
market. Average price is Rs.1600 for UIG 
and Rs.1000 for MIG
Interviewee Notes Approach/Framework
Upper Income
10% (1 M)
50% Penetration 
(0.50M)
5 Units Per Delivery
Average Garment 
Price  ₹1,600
Market Size 
₹4,000M
Middle Income
50% (5 M)
20% Penetration
(1 M)
2 Units Per Delivery
Average Garment 
Price ₹1,000
Market Size 
₹2,000M
Lower Income
40% (4 M)
0% Penetration
(0M)
Population of India (1450 Mn )
Women
50 % (725 M)
Men
50% (725 M)
Total Market Size
(Urban + Rural) 
₹6120 M
Guesstimate 6
Age Group 18 – 50 
40 % (290 M)
Other Age Groups
60 % (290 M)
Married 
70 % (203 M)
Unmarried
30 % (87 M)
Pregnant 
15 % (30 M)
Not Pregnant
85 % (173 M)
Urban
33% (10M)
Rural 67% 
(20 M) 
Market Size 
2% of Urban
₹120M
Page 2472024-2025

===== PAGE 248 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Estimate the amount of money spent on tea consumed by IIM Ahmedabad students on a typical day
Approach / FrameworkNotes
• Estimate the amount 
of money spent on 
tea consumed by the 
student community of 
IIMA each day
• Consider the four 
largest student 
bodies on campus for 
the analysis: PGP, 
PGP-FABM (across 
both years), PhD and 
PGP-X students
• Analysis to be 
restricted to a usual 
day (i.e. not during 
exceptional days 
such as exams)
• A margin of 5 % on 
consumption variation 
to be applied on 
overall tea 
consumption
Assumptions
• Number of students in 
each student body in any 
given year = 1200, 
detailed as follows
o PGP/PGP-FABM, 1st
year = 450
o PGP/PGP-FABM, 2nd
year = 450
o PGP-X = 150 (approx.)
o PhD = 150 (approx.)
• Average tea-drinking 
consumption patten 
applied = ~70% regular 
tea drinkers
• Non-drinkers divided 
further into occasional 
and strict non-drinkers
• Regular drinkers divided 
into heavy, moderate and 
light drinkers
• Average tea cup prices = 
Rs. 10 and Rs. 20
Notes:
• Regular drinkers assumed to be divided into heavy (10%), moderate (60%) and light drinkers (30%). Non-regular drinkers assumed to consist of strict non-drinkers forming a majority 
(80%) and occasional drinkers, consuming tea only once in few days, say, in groups, hang-outs, etc.
• Tea cup sizes available across the three major outlets on new campus of IIM Ahmedabad (Mafabhai tea stall, Bhavesh Bhai and Radhika’s) are Rs. 20 and Rs. 10 for a large and a 
small cup respectively, averaging at Rs. 15 per cup
• Heavy and moderate drinkers drinkers assumed to divide their daily tea consumption equally amongst the two tea sizes. For example, for a moderate drinker, this amounts to one 
serving of a large tea cup and one serving of a small tea cup in a day. Hence, average price paid for a tea cup by these segments = Rs. 15
• Light drinkers assumed to be equally divided amongst consumers of 1 large and 1 small tea cup, i.e. half of the light drinkers consume a large tea cup in a day and the other half 
consumes a small tea cup. Hence, average price paid for a tea cup by this segment = Rs. 15
• Occasional drinkers assumed to consume tea every once in 2-3 days, amounting to approximately 0.5 tea cups consumed per day
Total number of students at a 
given time (~1200)
Heavy drinkers 
(10%)
~80
Number of tea cups 
consumed per day
3-4Number of cups 
per day per person
Average price for a 
tea cup (Rs./cup)
Amount of Money 
spent in a day (Rs.)
Total amount spent by IIMA students on tea consumption in a day (without any variation) = ~Rs. 23.5k
Total amount spent by IIMA students on tea consumption in a day accounting for 5% variations in overall 
consumption =  Rs. 22k - 25k
Regular 
consumers (~70%)
~850
Non-regular 
consumers (~30%)
~350
Moderate 
drinkers (60%)
~500
Light drinkers 
(30%)
~270
Occasional 
drinkers (20%)
~70
Strict non-
drinkers (80%)
~280
2 1 0.5 0
~280 ~1000 ~270 ~35 --
15 10
~4.2k ~15k ~4.0k ~350 --
Guesstimate 7
Page 2482024-2025

===== PAGE 249 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Estimate the monthly residential electricity consumption in India
• Clarify which segments are to be 
included (Residential or 
Commercial) as their consumption 
patterns are very different. In this 
case, focus only on residential.
• Within the Rural segment, 
interviewee may consider adjusting 
for homeless people and areas 
which are not electrified
• Weighing monthly consumption by 
% of households in the income type 
and multiplying this by # of 
households will give monthly units 
consumption
• Average Household Size is 4 in 
Urban areas and 6 in Rural areas
Interviewee Notes Approach/Framework
Electricity
Residential
Urban Population 
(300 M)
Low Income 
60%
300 
Units/Month
Mid Income 
30%
1200 
Units/Month
High Income 
10%
3000 
Units/Month
Low Income 
70%
100 
Units/Month
Mid Income 
25%
300 
Units/Month
High Income 
5%
1000 
Units/Month
Commercial
Rural Population  
(700 M)
Urban Households 
(300 M/4) (75 M)
Rural Households  
(700 M/6) (120 M)
120M x (70% x 100 + 25% x 300 + 5% x 1000) = 23,400M units75M x (60% x 300 + 30% x 1200 + 10% x 3000) = 63,000M units 
Guesstimate 8
Page 2492024-2025

===== PAGE 250 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Estimate the Annual Revenue of a Multiplex
• Three Main Drivers of Revenue: Ticket 
Sales, Parking Charges and F&B orders
• Assume 4 Screens Per Multiplex
• Assume 300 Seats Per Screen
• Occupancy on Weekdays is 60% and 
Occupancy on Weekends is 90% (1.5x)
• Equal Ticket Price of Rs. 250 for all shows
• Parking Charge of Rs. 50 for all shows
• Average Order Value of Rs. 150 for F&B 
orders
• Assume 50% of customers use parking 
facility and 50% buy F&B
Interviewee Notes Approach/Framework
Revenue Per Screen 
(Weekday)
Food & Beverages
Footfall * Ticket Price * 
#Shows
(180 * 250 * 4)
Rs. 1.8L
Footfall * Parking % * 
#Shows * Parking Ticket
(180 * 0.5 * 50 * 4)
Rs. 0.18L
Footfall * F&B Buyers % * 
#Shows * Avg F&B Price
(180 * 0.5 * 150 * 4)
Rs. 0.54L
ParkingTicket Sales
Weekday Weekend
Occupancy 60% 90%
Revenue Per Screen Per Day Rs. 2.52L Ra. 3.78L
Number of Screens 4 4
Total Revenue Per Day Rs. 10.08L Rs. 15.12L
Number of Days 260 105
Total Revenue Per Day Type Rs. 26.2 Cr Rs. 15.9 Cr
Total Revenue Rs. 42.1 Cr
Guesstimate 9
Page 2502024-2025

===== PAGE 251 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Estimate the Monthly Revenue of Tata Play subscribers in Delhi
• Assume a top-down approach to solve such questions. Start with the basic equation and break into smaller equations.
• Exhaust all possible scenarios and make reasonable assumptions for the same. Clarify with the interviewer at each stage.
• Don’t need to be too precise. Interviewer looks for the assumptions called out and adaptability with Math.
• Begin by understanding total 
market for TV viewership in Delhi
• Understanding the demographics of 
Delhi (income/affordability)
• Making sure that we incorporate 
penetration of TV among income 
groups
• Market share of Tata Play assumed 
as 40%, 30% and 20% for High, 
Middle and Lower Income groups
• Understanding of Tata Play 
subscribers as households and 
possibility of multiple connections 
in a household
• Only residential subscribers to be 
considered
• Average household size is 5
Interviewee Notes Approach/Framework
Observations/Inferences
Delhi Population (20M)
Households (4M) Office Subscribers
BPL
(20%) (0.8M)
Low Income
(30%) (1.2M) 
Middle Income 
(30%) (1.2M)
High Income (20%) 
(0.8M)
50% TV Penetration
(0.6M)
90% TV Penetration 
(1.08M)
100% TV Penetration 
(0.8M)
20% Market Share 
(0.12M)
30% Market Share 
(0.324M)
40% Market Share 
(0.32M)
Low 
Income
Middle 
Income
High 
Income
Total 
Revenue
No of Subscribers 0.32M 0.324M 0.12M
Rs. 59.25 
Cr
No of Connections Per Subscriber 1 1.25 1.5
Monthly Revenue Per Connection Rs. 250 Rs. 500 Rs. 750
Total Revenue Rs. 36 Cr Rs. 20.25 Cr Rs. 3 Cr
Guesstimate 10
Page 2512024-2025

===== PAGE 252 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Estimate the total amount of toll tax collected annually across India
• Split of Small, Medium and Large 
Vehicles in the traffic is as given in 
Table A.
• Toll tax for different types of 
vehicles is as given in Table B.
• Processing time at a plaza against 
the time of the day is as given in 
Table C.
Note: The processing time used here 
is including the idle time for the plaza. 
At night when the load is lower idle 
time will be high so average 
processing time is higher. 
• Daily toll collection from 1 lane of 
a toll plaza ~ ₹3.6L
• On an average there are 4 active 
lanes in a plaza.
• Daily toll collection from 1 plaza ~ 
₹15L
• Daily toll collection from 560 
plazas ~ ₹85 Crores
• Annual toll collection ~ ₹30,000 
Crores
Interviewee Notes Approach/Framework
Number of Toll 
Plazas in India
Approximate distance between consecutive toll plazas ~80km
Land area served by a single toll plaza = 3.14*40*40 sq. km
(Assuming 80km length is shared by 2 plazas)
Total land area of India ~ 4 million sq. km
Assuming 70% roadways coverage. Serviced area ~ 2.8 mn sq. 
km
Total toll plazas in India = 2.8 * 10^6 / 3.14 * 40 * 40= ~ 560
Vehicle 
Type\Time
10AM –
6PM
6PM –
2AM
2AM –
10AM
Small 50% 40% 10%
Medium 30% 50% 20%
Large 10% 30% 60%
Vehicle Type Toll Tax
Small ₹100
Medium ₹200
Large ₹400
Time of the Day Processing 
Time
10AM – 6PM 30 seconds
6PM – 2AM 60 seconds
2AM – 10AM 90 seconds
Table A: Load distribution of vehicles types Vs Time of the day Table B: Average toll Tax for each vehicle type Table C: Vehicle Processing time
Time of the 
Day
No of Vehicles 
Processed Average Toll Price Total Toll 
Collected
10AM –
6PM
8 hrs / 30 sec = 
960
₹(0.5*100 + 0.4*200 + 
0.1*400) = ₹170
₹170*960 ~ 
₹1.6L
6PM – 2AM 8 hrs / 60 sec = 
480
₹(0.3*100 + 0.5*200 + 
0.2*400) = ₹210
₹210*480 ~ 
₹1.0L
2AM –
10AM
8 hrs / 90 sec = 
320
₹(0.1*100 + 0.3*200 + 
0.6*400) = ₹310
₹310*320 ~ 
₹1.0L
Total Toll Collection ~ ₹3.6L
Table 1: Toll collection in a single lane of a single toll plaza
Guesstimate 11
Facts/Assumptions
Page 2522024-2025

===== PAGE 253 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Guesstimate 12
Estimate the amount of food consumed daily by the birds living at IIM Ahmedabad
IIMA Area (100 Acres = ~400k m2)
Area of Buildings 
(1/3rd of total area) 
= ~133k m2
Area of Grounds / Lawns
(1/3rd of total area) 
= ~133k m2
Area of Roads 
(10 m wide)
Type Length 
(m)
No. 
(#)
Area
(m2)
Length-wise 1,000 2 20k
Breadth-wise 400 10 40k
Inter-sections 20 2k
Total 58k
Remaining Area
400k – 324k = 76k m2
Pavement 
(20%) Shrubs (30%) Trees (30%) 
= ~23k m2
Empty Space 
(20%)
Area occupied by 1 tree  
5*5  = 25 m2
No. of Trees 
23k / 25 = ~900
Approach / Framework
• Approach: Total Area → Tree Cover →
Tree Count → Bird Count → Food consumed
• Tree Cover = Total Area – area occupied by 
buildings, grounds, roads, etc.
• Tree Count = Tree Cover / Area per tree
• Bird Count = Tree Count * Birds per tree
+ Adjust for birds living on buildings
• Food Consumed = Food per Bird * Bird Count
Facts/Assumptions
• IIMA Area is ~100 Acres (400k m2), 
assumed as a 1000m * 400 m rectangle
• Buildings & Grounds/Lawns occupy ~1/3rd
of total area each
• Roads are 10 m wide, arranged in a 2*10 grid
• Trees are spaced such that each tree takes 
avg. 5*5 m2 area (excluding canopy)
• Birds don’t live on low-lying surfaces (shrubs)
• Food consumption as % of body weight is 
much greater for smaller birds
• Birds per tree, avg. body weight, & food 
consumption are approximate assumptions
Interviewee Notes
Bird Type Avg. Birds 
per tree
Total Birds living 
on trees
+ Birds living 
on buildings
Avg. Body 
Weight (g)
Daily Food Consumption 
(g)
Total Food 
consumption (kg)
Large Birds (Peacocks, Hawks, etc.) 1/50 0.02 * 900 = 18 - 5,000 5% of body weight = 250 250 * 18 = 4.5
Medium Birds (Crows, Pigeons, etc.) 1.5 1.5 * 900 = 1.35k +10% = 0.13k 500 15% of body weight = 75 75 * ~1.5k = 113.5
Small Birds (Sparrows, etc.) 2.5 2.5 * 900 = 2.25k +10% = 0.22k 50 30% of body weight = 15 15 * ~2.5k = 37.5
Total ~3.6k ~0.36k ~155 kg
No. of Birds Food Consumption by Birds
Observations / Suggestions
• For a more detailed estimate, one can break down buildings (academic, residential, ancillary) & grounds (large, medium, small ) & estimate their areas bottom-up
• We assumed a plain addition of different types of birds. In real life, there are interaction effects between them – birds of one species influence the presence of others
• We assumed approximate numbers for body weight & food consumption basis size category of birds. In reality, these will depend a lot on the specific species present
Page 2532024-2025

===== PAGE 254 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
• Estimate the number of daily
snapchat users.
• Consider the propensity to
maintain streaks.
• Segment the urban population by
age brackets and further by income
class.
• Apply various filters to arrive at the
guesstimate of snapchat streaks
sharing in a day
Interviewee Notes Facts/Assumptions Approach/Framework
• A person would send streaks to
someone in India only.
• Only snapchat streaks and no other
snaps is considered.
• 0-12 years age bracket is discounted
as they are expected to not have
phones and 60+ as they won’t use
phones much.
• Life Expectancy = 70 years, No. of
people in each bracket is distributed
proportionately as per life
expectancy.
• Urban households include 4 people:
parents and children, In middle and
upper class households, ¾
members would use social media
whereas in lower class households
½ would use it. (basis age and
income).
% using phones 60% 80%
% using smart phones 30% 80%
% using snapchat 30%
% mantaining streaks 33%
% using social media 50% 75%
95%
100%
75%
Calculation =159M
Calculation 15.9M
# of streaks sent in a day 8
Population
% using 
smart 
phones
% using 
social 
media
% using 
snapchat
% 
maintaining 
streaks
# of streaks 
sent in a dayFormula used x x x x x
Observations / Suggestions
• Urban population = Population of India (1300M) * 40% = 520M
• Number of snapchat users in rural India and those who maintain streaks would be comparatively insignificant, therefore a multiple (1.1) is taken at the end for the sake
of simplicity.
• A person who maintains streaks on Snapchat sends a snap everyday to fulfil the requirements of a streak. Ignoring breaking of streak anytime.
Urban Population
520M
0-12 years
~90M
60+ years
~75M
12-60 years
~355M
Lower Class 
(20%)
71M
Upper Class 
(20%)
71M
Middle Class 
(60%)
213M
355M
~140M
Guesstimate 13
Estimate the number of snapchat streaks shared in a day
Page 2542024-2025

===== PAGE 255 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
• Estimate the number of women
who would use menstrual health
products
• Segment the population of women
into urban and rural and factor in
differential penetration of sanitary
pads
• Segment population by age and
income level to identify the target
segment for usage of sanitary pads
• 0-13 years age bracket is discounted
• Average age of menopause is
assumed to be ~50 years
• Urban women assumed to be more
aware of menstrual health products
than rural women
• Assumption is that higher income
level correlates to higher awareness
of menstrual health products, and
hence, is likely to see higher usage
of sanitary pads
Interviewee Notes Approach/Framework
Total # of 
women
% using 
sanitary pads # of periods # of days / 
period # of pads / dayNumber of pads x x x x
Observations / Suggestions
• Total women population = Population of India (1400M) * 50% = 700M
• Broad aim is to identify the number of women and then multiply that by per individual usage to arrive at market size
• To get market size in monetary terms, assume a value per pad and multiply the answer by that number
Total women 
population
700M
0-13 years (20%)
140M
50+ years (40%)
280M
Guesstimate 14
Estimate the market size (in units) for sanitary pads in India
Urban (30%)
84M
Rural (70%)
196M
13-50 years (40%)
280M
Lower class
16.8M
Upper class
16.8M
Middle class
50.4M
Lower class
39.2M
Upper class
39.2M
Middle class
117.6M
60% usage
10.08M
100% usage
16.8M
80% usage
40.32M
30% usage
11.76M
70% usage
27.44M
50% usage
58.8M
165.2M women 3 days / period1 period / month 4 pads / dayx x x
~24B
~165.2M
Page 2552024-2025

===== PAGE 256 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Estimate the number of bullets fired in India annually
• Based on the 80-20 rule, only non-civilians need to be focused upon extensively
• Non-civilians would include police force and the armed forces
• We can further segment this as new-recruits and old employees
• India’s population is rounded off to
1.4 billion
• Only bullets used in rifle and pistols
are included. No other ammunition
• Non-material avenues like firing at
ceremonies, are ignored
Interviewee Notes Facts/Assumptions Approach/Framework
Observations/Inferences
• On an average, 60 shots are fired in 
one hour 
• Hours in training are higher for new 
recruits and lower for existing 
employees for both police and 
armed forces
• Live fire is higher for existing 
employees as compared to new 
recruits for both police and armed 
forces
• A sportsperson’s single match 
includes 60 shots for a match + 
practice shots
• Not calculated figures where 
numbers were too small to be 
material
Bullets fired by
Non-civilian Civilians
Police Force
1.4M (1 in 1000)
Armed Forces
1.4M (1 in 1000)
Unlicensed 
Gun Holders
Training
Licensed Gun 
Holders
Live Fire
Total
Guesstimate 15
New: 120 shots 
x 250 days
Current: 60 
shots x 50 days
New: 300 shots 
x 250 days
Current: 120 
shots x 100 days
New: 50 shots 
annually
Current: 200 
shots annually
New: 300 shots 
annually
Current: 400 
shots annually
Sportspersons: 
28K (0.02%)*120 
shots * 150 days 
Security: 2.8M 
(0.2%)* 50 shots 
* 50 days
8,239 Million 25,718 Million 7,515 Million 7 Million
Sportspersons: 
28K (0.02%)* 4 
matches * 100 
shots
Security:
Negligible
Criminals:
Negligible
Criminals:
700M * 10% gun
holders* 1 shot 
on average 
Page 2562024-2025

===== PAGE 257 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Interviewee Notes
Estimate the number of power point slides prepared by PGP/ FABM students during their time at IIM Ahmedabad in an academic year
Guesstimate 16
• Identify key sources of slide creation
• Factor in dynamics around course 
structure & extent of slide usage
• Be cognizant, that not all assignment 
& work would be PPT-based
• A normal scenario is assumed above, where there is no student exchange | Further, in reality, competitions teams may not remain same throughout the year
• The above approach does not account for slides created but not utilized in submissions – additional 10% buffer can be created to account for the same, if needed
• Perform a sense check of total number of slides. Potential approach - # slides/ student in a year = 94K/ 0.9K = ~105 slides per student per year (which is plausible)
Individual projects
Course work
(projects) Case Competitions
• Total batch strength = 900
• Academics:
- # 2nd year courses = ~Total credits 
(20)/ avg. credit per course (0.75)
- Avg. 2nd year group size is lower as 
students are spread across courses
- Larger % of 2nd year courses have 
projects (both individual & group)
- Assumed that only 50% of project 
courses have PPT based submission
• Clubs: Most clubs don’t work on 
PPT barring for certain meetings
- Only career clubs & select others 
assumed to have decent PPT usage
• Competitions Assumed 50% 
participation & 50% success rate
- Avg. competitions per team = 4
Low PPT    
usage (60%,  
i.e., 30 clubs)
Key work pieces involving PPT at IIMA 
Clubs
(~50 clubs)
Group projects Medium PPT 
usage (30%,   
i.e., 15 clubs)
High PPT    
usage (10%,  
i.e., 5 clubs)
% courses 
with 
projects
30% 50%
% based 
on PPTs 50% 50%
Avg. slides 
/ course 10 10
# 
students/ 
group
450 
students
450 
students
# slides ~24.3K ~30.4K
1st year
(36
courses)
2nd year
(27 courses)
1st year
(36
courses)
2nd year
(27
courses)
50% 80%
50% 50%
20 20
75 groups
(6 student/ 
group)
90 groups
(5 student/ 
group)
~13.5K ~19.4K
~1.5K slides 
@ 50 slides / 
club
~2.2K slides 
@ 150 slides / 
club
~1.5K slides 
@ 300 slides / 
club
# students 
participating 
(~50%, i.e., 450 
students)
# students not 
participating 
(~50%, i.e., 450 
students)
Approx # of teams
(~110 @ 4 members/ group)
# competitions registrations   
(~440 @ 4 competitions/ team)
# registrations 
progressing to 
case round 
(~50%, i.e., 220)
# registrations 
did not progress 
to case round 
(~50%, i.e., 165)
~1.3K slides      
@ 6 slides / 
competition
Total number 
of slides
~87.5K
(Coursework)
~5.2K
(Clubs)
~1.3K
(Competitions)
~94K slides/ 
year
Summary
Approach/Framework
Facts/Assumptions
Observations / Suggestions
Page 2572024-2025

===== PAGE 258 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Estimate the total number of chess moves played in a day in India
Interviewee Notes Approach/Framework
Total chess games 
played
Professional (0.5%) = 
5,000
Active players @ 50% = 
2500
Intermediate (15%) = 
150,000
Active players @ 25% = 
37,500
Bullet games @ 10 games 
per day per active player 
= 25000
Blitz games @ 2 games 
per day per active player 
= 5000 
Classical Games @ 0.1 
games per day per active 
player = 250
Amateur (84.5%) = 
845000
Active players @ 10% = 
84,500
Total moves @ 
40 moves/match 
= 1M
Total moves @ 
50moves/match 
= 250,000
Total moves @ 
60 moves/match 
= 15,000
Bullet games @ 10 games 
per day per active player 
= 25000
Blitz games @ 2 games 
per day per active player 
= 5000 
Classical Games @ 0.1 
games per day per active 
player = 250
Total Moves Played = 8,206,500
Total moves @ 
40 moves/match 
= 1M
Total moves @ 
50moves/match 
= 250,000
Total moves @ 
60 moves/match 
= 15,000
Total moves @ 
40 moves/match 
= 1M
Total moves @ 
50moves/match 
= 250,000
Total moves @ 
60 moves/match 
= 15,000
Guesstimate 17
• Total chess players in India is taken 
as 1M 
• In Bullet game time control is <=1 
min; Blitz >1 & <= 5 min and in 
classical game >5min.
• Games of higher rating category 
players are assumed to be more 
complicated and have more number 
of moves in general. 
• As the strength of player decreases, 
they tend to play with higher time 
control.
• Case counts moves of games only 
played in 3 variants i.e. Bullet, Blitz 
and classical. Other variants, 
puzzles and game with computer is 
neglected while doing these 
calculations
• Differentiate among the professional, 
intermediate and amateur as per the 
strength of a chess player.
• Among all chess games approximate 
the proportion of Classical, Blitz, and 
Bullet games.
• Estimate the average number of 
games of each variant played by each 
type of chess player and also the 
total number of moves in each types.
Facts/Assumptions
Page 2582024-2025

===== PAGE 259 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Estimate the number of Injections administered in Ahmedabad
Guesstimate 18
Approach / Framework
• Senior citizens are expected to visit 
the doctor more often
• Children and seniors are most likely 
to get medicines administered 
through injections 
• Senior citizens would require blood 
tests most frequently
• Calculations for total injections : 
[weighted avg. of income dist. and 
injections/ individual * age population]
Observations / Suggestions
• A  normal scenario is assumed, where vaccinations are only applicable to children from 0 -14.
• In case of children, injection per individual and vaccine injection are added together.
• % for blood test required and % for injections administered are mutually exclusive and can be added since we are considering the total number of injections.
Total Population of 
AMD (80 lac)
Adults (15-60 yrs)
65% = 50 lac
Instance Lower 
income 
(30%)
Middle & 
upper 
income 
(70%)
Visits to doctor 1 2
% for blood 
tests required
10% 10%
% for injections 
administered
30% 40%
Injection per 
individual
0.4 1.0
Instance Lower 
income 
(30%)
Middle 
income 
(60%)
Upper 
income 
(10%)
Visits to 
doctor
1 2 4
% for blood 
tests required
10% 10% 10%
% for 
injections 
administered
5% 10% 15%
Injection per 
individual
0.15 0.4 1.0
Instance Lower 
income 
(30%)
Middle 
income 
(60%)
Upper 
income 
(10%)
Visits to 
doctor
1 4 6
% for blood 
tests required
20% 20% 20%
% for 
injections 
administered
20% 30% 40%
Injection per 
individual
0.4 2.0 3.6
Additional 
injections for 
Vaccines
0.5 1
Professionally 
administered (by 
doctor/ pathology)
Self Administered 
(by frequent users)
Number of 
injections
% needing 
insulin
% diabetic population
Insulin 
patients
100 10% 5% 80 lac
Total Injections: Children (Normal + Vaccine) + Adults (15-60 yrs.) + Senior Citizens + Insulin Patients
=  1.67 * 20                                   + 0.385 * 50              + 1.68 * 10           + 0.4 * 80
=  101 lac (101,00,000)
Estimate the number of injections administered in Ahmedabad
Facts/Assumptions
• Population of Ahmedabad is ~80 lac
• Average visits to doctors is 2.5 per 
year by children (1-14 yrs) in US 
(non-vaccine). Estimating 40% for 
lower income and 70% for upper 
income India.
• Average visits to doctor by adults 
(15+) is 2 per year.  Average visit is 
4 by senior citizens. 
• Diabetic population is 5%.
Senior Citizen (60+)
10% = 10 lac
Children (1- 14 yrs)
25% = 20 lac
Interviewee Notes
Types of 
Administration
Page 2592024-2025

===== PAGE 260 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
• The above figure has been computed assuming a voter turnout of 100%. In reality, Lok Sabha Election voter turnout is generally around 70%. This
implies a voting population of around 600 Mn, which translates into an actual EVM requirement of 800,000 EVMs
• Therefore, the capacity utilization of EVMs in India is (0.8/1.25) => 64%
• The time taken by an individual to cast a vote depends on several hygiene factors such as availability of election officers at polling booth, time taken by
them to complete verification checks and sensitivity of the EVM.
Interviewee Notes
• Estimate the number of Eligible Voters in India
• Segment Population basis Rural/Urban divide & age
• Factor in the propensity of individuals to cast vote
• Find utilization of  EVMs basis voting time required
Approach/Framework
Observations/Inferences
Guesstimate 19
Assumptions Made
• Votes cast through ballot paper have not been 
considered for the sake of simplicity
• Avg. Life Expectancy of an Indian ~ 70 Years
• Age Brackets (Based on Demographic Dividend)
➢ 0- 18 Years ( 20% of the Population)
➢18 – 60 Years ( 70% of the Population)
➢60+ Years (10% of the Population)
• An average Poll Booth operates for 10 hours daily 
(8AM to 6 PM) => 600 minutes
• # of Election Phases (Days) – Assumed to be 5
➢ Depends on population density of a state & 
political volatility – Bihar needed 7 phases in 2019 
Elections v/s Goa which needed 2 phases only
Total Population of India 
(1400 Mn)
Rural (70%)
~ 1000 Mn
Urban (30%)
~ 400 Mn
0-18 years 
~ 200 Mn
18-60 years
~ 700 Mn
60+ years
~ 100 Mn
0-18 years
~ 80 Mn
18-60 years
~ 280 Mn
60+ years
~ 40 Mn
% with 
valid 
Voter ID
Not eligible 75%
(~ 525 Mn)
55%
(~ 55 Mn) Not eligible 85%
(~ 240 Mn)
70%
(~ 30 Mn)
Parameter Calculation Methodology
Time taken to cast vote per indv. Around 4 minutes on an average Assumption ( 2-6 mins. to cast a single vote)
# votes casted per EVM per phase 150 votes (600 mins / 4 mins/vote) Polling Booth Op. Hours / Time taken per indiv.
# votes per EVM – based on 
phases 
750 votes per EVM
(5 Election phases * 150 votes)
# Election Phases * # Votes Casted per EVM in 
a single Phase
# EVMs required ~ 1.13Mn (~ 850 Mn / 750 votes) Population Eligible to Vote / # Votes per EVM
# EVMs (with buffer stock of 10%) ~ 1.25 Mn (1.13 Mn + 10%) # EVMs required + 10%
Estimate the number of Electronic Voting Machines required for the 2024 Lok Sabha Elections
Page 2602024-2025

===== PAGE 261 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Estimate the number of Injections administered in Ahmedabad
Guesstimate 20
• Estimate number of hours spent 
across various categories
• Assume that Library has enough 
seating capacity for all the students.
Observations / Suggestions
• A normal scenario is assumed in the above case. We can also assume that during peak summers, hours spend in Library will increase by average 20% as students tend 
to spend more time in Library AC due to hot weather.
• Also during exam time, we can assume that the total usage will increase by 20% on average across all categories
Estimate the total number of hours spend in library by students in IIM Ahmedabad in a day
Facts/Assumptions
• There are around 1100 students 
in IIMA across PGP, PGPX and FPM
• We assume that faculty members 
and staff members don't spend time 
in library
• Library usage varies across 
the day with higher usage in afternoon 
and night
• Variations in individual study habits and 
course requirements
• We assume that all PhD students are 
high users of library whereas PGP 
and PGPX students can be categorised 
into high, medium and low user 
categories
Interviewee Notes
 Approach/Framework
Total Student Population 
(1100)
PGP
900
PhD
50
PGPX
150
High 
(30%)
270
Low 
(20%)
180
High
(60%)
90
Medium/
Low (40%)
60
Distribution 
throughout 
the day 
Morning
(8am-12pm)
Afternoon
(12pm-4pm)
Evening
(4pm-8pm)
Late night
(8pm-2am)
# of hours 
spent
1
3
2.5
2.5
Per day hours spent 270*9 + 450*6 + 180*3 90*9 + 60*4 50*10
Medium 
(50%)
450
# of hours 
spent
1
2
1.5
1.5
# of hours 
spent
X
2
X
1
# of hours 
spent
1.5
3
3
1.5
# of hours 
spent
1
2
1
X
# of hours 
spent
2
3
3
2
9 6 3
PGP PGPX PhD
9
 4
 10
7,220 hours
Page 2612024-2025

===== PAGE 262 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Estimate the number of soldiers living in trenches at any point in WW2
• The fighting age is based only on the majority of nations. During the later periods of war, any male teenager capable of handling a rife was enlisted in the army
• The deaths are not accounted for, it is assumed that those who die would have been replaced by the Homefront
• Estimate the number of people 
who fought in the war at any 
point of time
• Apply various filters to arrive at 
people active engaged in trench 
warfare
• Use more filters to arrive at the 
final answer
• Sanity check can be done 
through area of battlefield, 
distance between trenches, 
taking 10 soldiers per trench as 
an average number of people, 
and ~90% occupancy at any given 
point of time
Interviewee Notes Facts/Assumptions Approach/Framework
Observations/Inferences
• Only men are involved in this case 
as women did not fight in trenches.
• Only 18–45 year olds are enlisted in 
the army. Beyond this, people are 
usually not drafted.
• There is a time lag between battles, 
but considering it is WW2, this lag 
is not much. This time is spent in 
planning, preparation, sourcing 
weapons, recovery etc.
• WW2 was fought through trench 
warfare initially and later, countries 
realized that mobile warfare and 
utilization of technology would 
make the war strategy much more 
efficient. 
• Not all battles (within infantry as 
well) are trench warfare. There are 
other forms of warfare too.
• Not all soldiers live in the trenches, 
they have rotating shifts (Total = 3).
Guesstimate 21
Total Population
2.3 Bn
Female
1 Bn
Male
1.3 Bn
18-45 (50%)
650M
45+ (20%)
260M
From countries with 
some involvement (50%) 
- 325M
From Allies or Axis 
Powers (25%)
162.5M
Percentage Drafted
Engagement in active warfare
10% 50%
50% 80%
Persons engaged in warfare 16.25M 65M
81.25M
From peaceful 
countries (25%)
162.5M
0-18 (30%)
390M
Naval (30%) Air Warfare (5%) Miscellaneous (5%)Infantry (60%)
Armoured (20%)Mountain (10%) Trench (30%)
~14.6M
Jungle (10%) Others (30%)
Time Spent in 
Battles (60%)Preparation(10%) Recovery (20%) Others (10%)
Active Shifts (1/3)Inactive (2/3) ~ 3 million soldiers
Page 2622024-2025

===== PAGE 263 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Estimate the number of Injections administered in Ahmedabad
Guesstimate 22
Approach / Framework
• Calculations for weekly events :   
(total participants * weekly hours*  
40 weeks for 1 year)
Observations / Suggestions
• Students at IIM Ahmedabad invest a substantial amount of time in extracurricular activities, which highlights the active enga gement of students beyond academics.
• The time distribution among different activities suggests a well -rounded student engagement. 
• Given the substantial time commitment, it is essential to provide students with time management training to balance academics and extracurricular activities effectively.
Events No. of 
Students
No. of Hours 
(Annually)
Chaos 240 72
T-Nite 500 20
TRBS 240 72
Total 
Seminars 
(Annually) 
Average 
Attendance
Avg 
Time/ 
Seminar
200 100 2
Competitions Sport Activities
Estimate the hours spent in Extra Curricular Activities by students in IIM Ahmedabad
Facts/Assumptions
• Total Number of Students in IIMA~1200.
• Number of Active Clubs at IIMA: 20 
• Each club at IIMA has an average of 35 
active members.
• Each member spends about 2 hours per 
week on club activities.
• 10%, 20%, 30% of IIMA students are 
Highly active, moderately active and less 
active in sports, respectively. Other 40% 
of IIMA are rarely active in sports. 
• There are 40 competitions in which IIMA 
students participate. 
• There are 10%~120 active participants in 
Community service and they devote 2 
hours/week in it. 
• Students stay in the campus for 40 weeks 
in a year and are away for 12 weeks. 
• All placement related activities are not 
assumed to be Extra-curricular activities.
Interviewee Notes
 Types of ECAs
SeminarsClubs & Events Cultural Activities Community Service
Active 
Participants
No. of 
Hour / 
Week
120 2
Active 
Clubs
Members 
per Club
No. of 
Hours 
(Weekly)
20 35 2
Activity Rate Number Hours/ 
Week
Sangharsh
/ Yalgaar
Highly Active 10% 120 6 50
Moderately 
Active - 20% 240 3 0
Less Active -30% 360 2 0
Active 
Participants
No. of 
Hours / 
Week
150 2.5 
Competition 
Host
No. of 
Students
No. of 
Comp
No. of 
Hours
IIMA 300 10 30
Other B 
Schools
75 15 25
Industry 100 15 40
Total Hours=                  Clubs                                 +                    Events                   +       Seminars         +            Cultural Activities    
=   20 * 35 * 2hrs/wk * 40wks/year  +    (240*72 + 500*20 + 240*72)         +      200 * 100* 2    +   150 * 2.5hrs/wk * 40 wks/ year
+                      Competitions                          +                                               Sport Activities                                     
+   (300*10*30 + 75*15*25 +100*15*40)          +         (120*6hrs/wk*40wks/year + 120*50 )   + 240 *3hrs/wk*40wks/year    +
+                       Sport Activities                       +                                 Community Service
+                 360*2hrs/wk*40wks/year              +                              120* 2hrs/wk* 40wks/year
=          56,000   +     44,560  +    40,000  +15,000   +    178,125   +   92,400  +   9,600   
= 435,685 hours
Page 2632024-2025

===== PAGE 264 =====

Industry-wise 
Panorama Reports


===== PAGE 265 =====

Industry 
Structure
• Top 3 players have 80% of domestic market share 
(Indigo – 61.6%, Air India 9.7%, Vistara – 9.4%) 
Recent 
Updates
• Check-in systems down: IndiGo, SpiceJet, Akasa 
ops
• India's airlines to have 50% mkt share of int'l 
passengers by FY28
Key 
Performance
Indicators
(KPIs)
• Available seat miles (ASM) – Number of seats 
multiplied by the distance flown, a measure of 
airline capacity
• Revenue passenger miles (RPM) – Number of 
passenger multiplied by miles flown, a measure of 
volume
• Passenger Load Factor – RPM expressed as a 
percentage of ASM, a measure of utilization
• Cost per available seat mile – Operating 
expenses divided by ASM, a measure of efficiency
Industry 
terminologies
• MRO activities – Maintenance, Repair and 
Overhaul activities ensure aircrafts are ready to fly 
at all times (one of the major expenditure heads 
for airlines)
• DGCA – Director General of Civil Aviation is the 
regulatory body of Civil Aviation
Airlines
• Ticket, gate counter
• Aircraft operations
• In-flight services
• Baggage and cargo handling
• Baggage and cargo 
connection
• Flight connection
• Cab and hotel 
reservations
• Travel agents
• Coupons, discounts
• Electronic tickets
• Frequent flyer
• Advertisements
• E-ticketing
• Support center
• Lost baggage 
• Aircraft lease
• Fuel
• Route selection
• Facilities planning
• Flight, support crew
Inbound Logistics Operations Outbound Marketing Service
Revenue & Cost Drivers
Growth Drivers and Challenges
Revenue Segments Cost Segments
Ticket Revenue Aviation fuel (37%)
Baggage fees Aircraft & facility lease (15%)
On-board food & services Equipment maintenance & 
Overhaul (9%)
GROWTH DRIVERS -
• Govt. to revive 50 aircraft landing sites comprising airports, heliports etc.
• Country will become the third-largest aviation market in terms of
passengers by the end of 2024.
• India will require 2800+ new commercial airplanes in the next 20 years.
• India aims to have 220 new airports by 2025
CHALLENGES –
• Cutthroat Pricing: To attract passengers, airlines in India often resort to
dramatically slashing ticket prices
• Dollar Dependency: Fluctuations in $ rate against INR can severely impact 
profits (major expenses like aircraft acquisition, maintenance, & lease costs 
are &-denominated)
Industry Metrics
Overview of the industry

===== PAGE 266 =====

Airlines In-Depth Analysis
An Attempt to give future consultants a better idea of the industry
• Full-service carriers – Offers a range of pre-flight and on-board services at ticket price
• Low-cost carriers –Reduce costs by using large fleets (higher miles per day per flight), a single type of aircraft, and limited services
• Charter airlines – Focus on providing passenger services to tourists, usually entering into agreements with tour operators
• Cargo airlines – Primarily focus on air transportation of freight
Porter Five Forces
• Bargaining power of suppliers – High Oligopolies in the aircraft 
and engine production markets
• Bargaining power of buyers – High Low switching costs and 
undifferentiated product
• Threat of new entrants – Low High entry barriers owing to high 
investments and regulations
• Threat of substitutes – Medium Fast trains like Vande Bharat 
offer a cheaper alternative to airlines
• Competitive rivalry – High Highly competitive market with 
nearly 15 operators in India offering an undifferentiated service
Industry Specifics
• Scheduled Air Transport – Domestic (Ex: Indigo) & International 
Airlines (Ex: British Airways)
• Non- Scheduled Air Transport – Charter and Air Taxi Operators (Ex: 
JET-Solution)
• Air Cargo Services – Transportation of Cargo & Mail (Ex: DHL)
PESTLE
• Environmental – It is mandatory to submit to DGCA monthly fuel 
consumption data to set up a carbon dioxide emission inventory. 
• Political – UDAN (Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik) scheme which was 
released in June 2016 with the motive of offering half of the flights at 
subsidized fares and is expected to be in process for a period of 10y 
years (till 2026).
• Variability in costs – Fuel costs (~40% of total cost) are highly variable, 
resulting in variability of total costs
• NABH (NextGen Airports for Bharat) - It is a government initiative to 
expand airport capacity more than five times to handle billions of trips a 
year, in the next 10-15 years.
• Growing private sector participation through the Public-Private 
Partnership (PPP) model is evident, with 14 airports in India currently 
operated under PPP agreements.
• MRO Industry – The initiatives of the government to support the MRO 
sector is expected to decrease the costs of airlines
• Hangar Costs – Building and maintaining aircraft hangars requires invest.
Market Segments
Further Reading: IBEF Report
Business Models


===== PAGE 267 =====

Industry 
Structure
Asset Mgt. Industry Size $865bn (14% CAGR) split 
into Public Mkt. AMCs & Pvt. Fund Managers
Recent Updates • JPMC & BNY Mellon to enter India AMC market
• MF AUMs expected to double by 2030 (to $1tn)
Key 
Performance
Indicators
(KPIs)
• AUM – Assets under Management
• Hurdle / Pref – Min. %IRR return offered to LPs
• Catchup – Return taken by GP for meeting hurdle 
commitments to LPs, generally 20% of hurdle 
distributions to LPs and GPs inclusive (effective 25%)
• Carry – Balance excess profits after meeting the 
hurdle / catchup generally distributed 80:20 by LP:GP
• Expense Ratio - % of AUM charged for bearing the  
fund expenses
Industry 
Terminologies
• LP – Limited Partner, or investor in a fund
• GP / Sponsor – General Partner (sponsor in India), 
promoting the fund with sizeable investment 
• Manager – Often, the GP, the manager entity who 
manages the assets of the fund
• Trustee – In India, since funds are often set-up as 
trusts, the trustee holds the asset on behalf of 
beneficiaries and contracts with the manager
Revenue & Cost Drivers
Growth Drivers and Challenges
Revenue Segments Cost Segments
Asset Management Fees Transaction Costs / 
Brokerage
Performance Fees Employee Benefits
Distribution Fees Operational Expenses
GROWTH DRIVERS –
• Promotive measures being taken by the Government to onshore global 
asset management industry through initiatives like GIFT IFSC –
increasing foreign inflows with rising investor interest in India 
• Rising AUMs through increasing domestic financial inclusion and higher 
public market inflows (SIP Inflows 3Yr CAGR @27% as of FY24)
CHALLENGES –
• Largely underdeveloped alternative asset market in India with high
uncertainty around regulatory parameters
• Competitive pressures driving down fee structures for managers
Industry Metrics
Asset Management
• Fund Marketing and 
Distribution
• Roadshows to institutional 
investors and HNIs
• Deciding sector and 
investment strategy
• Evaluating opportunities
• Closing on deals
• Managing the asset
• Continuous monitoring 
and management of 
portfolio returns
• Exiting the asset on 
achieving target IRRs
• Structuring the returns 
among different investor 
classes (in private market)
• Providing liquidity in case 
of open-ended funds
• Structuring the sponsor, 
manager and trustee
• Structuring for offshore 
funds and pooled 
vehicles
Fund Set-up Investor Outreach Investment & Mgt. Harvesting Returns
Overview of the Industry

===== PAGE 268 =====

Asset Management In-Depth Analysis
An Attempt to give future consultants a better idea of the industry
• Mutual Funds – Primarily operating in the listed space, a few types of funds are ETFs, Equity -oriented, Hybrid, Debt-oriented, Liquid, Money Market, etc. 
• Private Market Funds – Predominantly managing private assets, these include managers of Angel Funds, Venture Capitals, Private Equities, Hedge Funds etc.
• Alternative Inv. Funds – Managers of alternative assets like real assets (REITs, InvITs and PEREs), commodities, numismatic & antiques, crypto fund managers
• Asset Reconstruction Companies – Managers acquire distressed assets from balance sheets of FIs to reconstruct and extract maximum possible value
Industry Specifics
• Fund Mgt. – Manages assets of a fund for the pool of LPs and the GP
• Family Offices – Manages family assets of UHNIs & corporate promoters
• PMS & Wealth Mgt. – Manages personal wealth of HNIs investing across 
asset classes to provide comprehensive portfolio management services
• Investment Advisory – Provide investment advice to retail / HNI investors, 
but do not manage the assets on behalf of investor
PESTLE
• Economic – Highly sensitive to the economic state of the jurisdiction 
and dependent on market sentiment of retail and institutional investors
• Technological – Fintech innovations like Smallcase or quant/algo-
trading are disintegrating traditional asset management in public markets
• Environmental – Focus on ESG investing, offering niche for managers
Business Models
Market Segments
Porter Five Forces
• Bargaining Power of Suppliers – Low; since suppliers of capital 
(retail and institutional investors) invest mainly based on market trends
• Bargaining Power of Buyers – Low; since funds have multiple 
buyers of capital i.e. assets and asset classes to invest funds into
• Threat of New Entrants – High; since experience and reputation 
are the only key ingredients required for asset management
• Threat of Substitutes – Low; asset managers cannot be substituted
• Competitive Rivalry – High; multiple managers in every asset class 
coupled with the  entry of foreign players into the Indian asset 
management space
• Fee Structures – Public market AMCs like HDFC, ICICI, Quant, JM etc. 
derive their revenues as a flat percentage of assets managed, while the fee 
structures for private managers are based on waterfall structures (hurdle, 
catchup and carry provisions) to align investor interests
• Internal and External Management – Asset managers may either be 
employees of the fund (internal) or a separate company contracted by the 
trustee (external) for fund mgt.; in India, most funds have external management
• SPACs – Emerging model in the US; fund managers incorporate listed blank 
cheque companies and acquire an unlisted asset to provide indirect listing


===== PAGE 269 =====

Industry 
Structure
• Fragmented; Maruti Suzuki (40.86%),  Hyundai 
(14.34%), Tata Motors(13.71%), Mahindra (10.97%) 
Market
Segments
• 2W ~ 75.35% | Passenger Vehicles ~17.69%
• Commercial Vehicles ~4% | 3W ~2.90%
Key 
Performance
Indicators
(KPIs)
• Utilization Rate – Actual vehicle output divided by 
potential vehicle output
• Cycle Time – Total amount of time it takes for a 
vehicle to move through a production line from start 
to finish
• Effective labour rate – Revenue produced per 
billed hour of labor
Industry 
terminologies
• Fuel economy – The amount of fuel a vehicle 
consumes per mile driven
• Emissions – The amount of pollutants emitted by a 
vehicle
• Safety rating – A measure of how safe a vehicle is 
in a crash
• Technology features – The number and types of 
tech. features available in a vehicle
• Warranty claims – The number of warranty claims 
Revenue & Cost Drivers
Growth Drivers and Challenges
Revenue Segments Cost Segments
Automobile sales Raw Materials
After-sales service Labour 
Financing services Advertising
GROWTH DRIVERS –
• By 2030, the Indian government has committed that 30% of the new 
vehicle sales in India would be electric.
• Expected penetration of  72 vehicles per 1000 people by 2025
• The allocation of FAME II increased by 78%. In the Union Budget 2023
CHALLENGES –
• Increasing competition, national regulators and global customers
have caused global automakers to rethink their platform strategies.
• Constantly evolving regulations around emission norms (Fit for 55, 
BSVI Phase 2), air bag, axle-load, etc.
Industry Metrics
Automobiles
• Primary production 
(casting, forming)
• Secondary production 
(machining, welding)
• Quality testing
• Warehousing
• Distribution
• Dealership Management
• Advertising
• Pricing
• Promotion
• Repair
• Maintenance
• Warranty 
• Raw Material 
procurement
• Warehouse handling
Inbound logistics Manufacturing Outbound logistics Marketing & Sales After Sales
Overview of the industry

===== PAGE 270 =====

Automobiles In-Depth Analysis
An Attempt to give future consultants a better idea of the industry
• D2C or OEM-Dealer – Units sold either directly or through a network of dealerships, along with insurance and financing products
• Mobility as a service (MaaS) – Joint digital channel enabling users to plan, book, and pay for multiple types of mobility options
• Subscription/Leasing based models – Monthly fee charged to operate the vehicle, along with security deposit 
• Shared Mobility – Transportation options which ferry multiple users simultaneously or at discrete intervals
Industry Specifics
• Demand Forecasting – To optimize on operation costs
• Quality – Inferred from warranty claims and customer satisfaction
• Time to market – From R&D to the car rolling off the assembly
• Inventory – Maintain right level of inventory to meet fluctuations
PESTLE
• Political; Recent approval of an electric vehicle policy by the govt. 
offering duty concessions to companies investing a min of US$ 500 
million in manufacturing units in India
• Legal; Soon to be made rule for car manufacturers to produce flex-
fuel engines (capable of operating on blended fuels – petrol + ethanol) 
•
Competitive Advantages
Further Reading: IBEF Report
Business Models
Porter five forces
• Bargaining power of suppliers – Low; Large number of ancillary 
suppliers in the market
• Bargaining power of buyers – High; Foreign entrants offering 
domestic-oriented offerings
• Threat of new entrants – Low; Huge capital investment 
requirement and long-gestation period
• Threat of substitutes – Low; Increasing with time due to 
development of public/shared mobility options
• Competitive rivalry – High; Established players and upcoming new 
EV players in 2W segment
• Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan - Special economic and comprehensive 
package of INR 20 Lakh Cr towards promoting manufacturing in India.
• The evolution of connected vehicles: The connected car involves a 
communication center that receives & sends information from the 
environment. There are uncertainties and questions about who will provide 
these services & whether car companies can now overcome all uncertainties
• Technological Disruptions & Consumer Demand; Consumer 
preferences and market dynamics are evolving rapidly in response to 
technological disruptions. The auto sector is experiencing rapid developments, 
including electric vehicles (EVs), ADAS, and advanced connectivity features.


===== PAGE 271 =====

Services
• Account 
Mgmt
• Asset Mgmt
• IPO/Issuance
Investing
• Credit
• Securities
• Financial 
Products
Funding
• Deposits
• Securities
Products & Services
Industry 
Structure
• Total Banking Sector Assets; Public Banks- 58.32%, 
Private Banks- 35.14%, Foreign banks- 6.54%
Recent 
Updates
• UPI transactions jump 36% to Rs 60. trillion (US$ 
718.30 billion) in the April-June quarter
• Banks required to allocate an additional 5% 
reduction in the stability of retail deposits with 
internet and mobile banking access
Key 
Performance
Indicators
(KPIs)
• Net Interest Margin (NIM): The difference 
between the interest earned and the interest paid, 
calculated as percentage of avg loan asset amount
• Return on Assets (RoA): It is used to assess the 
profitability of firm’s assets
• Efficiency Ratio: Assesses how well a bank 
manages its non-interest/overhead expenses
• LDR: Loan Deposit Ratio assesses liquidity
Industry 
terminologies
• CASA Ratio: Current Account Savings Account 
Ratio is used to determine the ratio of deposit 
amount in current & savings accounts to total 
deposits
• NPA: Non-performing assets are those advances 
on which interest payment has been overdue for 
more than 90 days
Banking
• Offerings
• Acquisition
• Retention
• Payment Clearing
• Settlement
• Trading
• Advertisement
• Branding and 
Promotion
Marketing Sales Transactions
Revenue & Cost Drivers
Growth Drivers and Challenges
Revenue Segments Cost Segments
Interest on Lending Interest expend
Investment activities Labour
Deposits with RBI Advertising
GROWTH DRIVERS -
• Indian Fintech industry to be at US$ 150 bn by 2025 (3rd largest
globally)
• UPI recorded the highest ever volume of transactions in 2024 –
14.03 Bn
• India will become the 3rd largest consumer economy by 2030, driven by a
young population comprising 65% population
• CHALLENGES –
• Icra downgraded the banking sector outlook from 'positive' to 'stable'
due to expected credit growth and profitability moderation in FY25.
• Gross NPAs likely to reduce to 2.2% by March 2025.
Industry Metrics
Overview of the industry


===== PAGE 272 =====

• Retail Funded Banks: Provides banking services to individual customers, offering services like personal loans, checking accounts, etc. Basically, the banks are 
aimed at the general public or smaller corporations.
• Wholesale Funded Banks: Banking services being sold to large, institutional clients, including MNCs, governments, and real estate developers. Such ba nks
facilitate access to a substantial amount of capital, offering services like risk management, IB, etc. 
Porter five forces
• Bargaining power of suppliers – Low as the money supply and 
liquidity is controlled by RBI
• Bargaining power of buyers – Low individually, but can increase 
with rising incomes and better creditworthiness
• Threat of new entrants – Low risk especially on account of huge 
licensing requirements, investment requirements and trust; only a few 
PSBs dominate the market
• Threat of substitutes – Medium level of risk posed by NBFCs, 
mutual funds, internet banking and other financial services providers
• Competitive rivalry – High competition from established players; 
customers usually have accounts in multiple banks
Industry Specifics
• Public Sector Banks (PSBs): SBI is the leading PSB with assets of ~5 lakh 
crore, followed by Bank of Baroda and Canara Bank
• Private Sector Banks: The leading private bank is HDFC, with total assets 
of > 20 lakh crore, followed by ICICI and Axis Bank
• Foreign Banks: Banks like Citi bank, HSBC etc. had total assets of ~US $160 
billion
• Regional Rural Banks: RRBs comprise >40% of banks, yet ~9% market share 
in Indian banking industry
PESTLE
• Economic; By 2030, India will add 140 Mn middle-income and 21 Mn 
high-income households driving demand of Indian FinTech space
• Political; The RBI launched a pilot to digitalize KCC lending. This is 
expected to transform the flow of credit in the rural economy.
Banking In-Depth Analysis
An Attempt to give future consultants a better idea of the industry
• Rural Digitization; Digital adoption continues to be propelled by rural India –
clocking an 8% YoY growth to 333 Mn internet users (37% of rural population). 
Rural consumption accounts for 45% of all data consumption in India.
• Digital Push; Mobile banking internet banking, neo-banking & rise in digital 
products and solutions shows 93% digital payments (by volume) done via mobile 
(2021) and over 1 Bn cards are in circulation
• Simplification of KYC process: The KYC process will be simplified adopting 
a ‘risk-based’ instead of ‘one size fits all’ approach
Market Segments
Further Reading: IBEF Report 
BUSINESS MODELS


===== PAGE 273 =====

Industry 
Structure
1500+ Cable TV Operators in India 
(Many regional players & few national players such as 
TataSky, DishTV, DEN Networks)
40+ OTT Players in India (Hotstar – 26%, Prime – 21%, 
NetFlix – 13%, Zee5 – 11%, JioCinema – 6%)
Recent Updates
• Partnership Between Hotstar and JioCinema (Reliance) 
pushes collective market share to over 30%
• Free Content Offered by JioCinema followed by Hotstar 
for IPL, Paris Olympics, etc
• Steady decline in paid TV, but growth in FreeDish
Key 
Performance
Indicators
(KPIs)
• Monthly Active Users & Retention Rates
• TRPs – TV rating pts to gauge show/channel popularity 
for advertising/schedule decisions
• Watch Time – Total time spent on the app
• Customer Acquisition Cost (CAC)
• Avg. Revenue per User  & Lifetime Value
• Conversion Rates - % of Free users converted
Industry 
terminologies
• DTH – Satellite-based TV broadcasting to user’s 
homes through antenna & set-top
• SVOD/TVOD/AVOD – Video-on Demand models in 
OTT driven by subscriptions, or advertising respectively
• MPVD – Multichannel Video Programming Distributors 
(eg: Star, Zee, Sony, SET)
Cable TV & OTT
• Content Delivery
• App Deployment across 
phones, TVs
• Cable( DTH /Set-Top)
• Internet distribution
• Content Acquisition
• Content Creation
• Licensing & Rights
• Tech & Equipment Sourcing
• Platform Infra Setup
• Platform Promotions
• Subscription Models 
• Advertisements
• Original Content 
Marketing
• Subscription Mgmt.
• Content Curation
• Personalization basis user 
analytics
• Customer Support
• Content Production
• Content Encoding,  
Storage & Mgmt.
• Streaming & Transmission
• UI/UX Design
Operations Distribution Inbound Logistics Sales & Marketing Service
Revenue & Cost Drivers
Growth Drivers and Challenges
Revenue Segments Cost Segments
Advertising Content production & acquisition
Subscription Platform Maintenance
Content Licensing Marketing Expenditure
GROWTH DRIVERS -
•Growth in the number of smartphone users & deeper internet
penetration in India with lower data costs; Faster Speeds (5G)
•Rising Demand - Surge in OTT subscriptions post-pandemic.
•Access to high quality, multi-lingual content attracts users
•Increasingly Affordable Subscription Packages (sometimes free)
CHALLENGES –
•Piracy – Illegal online distribution of content impacts revenue
•Diversity & Localization- OTT platforms must create content meeting
diverse needs and regional tastes.
•Monetization – Dynamic pricing models to meet all user needs
•Privacy – Concerns related to protection of sensitive user data
Industry Metrics
Overview of the industry


===== PAGE 274 =====

• Advertising-driven (AVOD) – Revenue generated via ads the user must watch on the platform before accessing free content (eg: YouTube, Facebook Watch)
• Subscription-driven (SVOD) – Revenue generated via fees paid by subscribers to view content on the OTT platforms (eg: Netflix, Prime, Hotstar)
• Transaction-driven (TVOD) – Revenue generated via subscribers purchasing content on a pay-per-view model (eg: ZeePlex, FanCode) 
• Affiliate Fees-based – Carriage fees paid by MPVDs (Star, Sony) to broadcast their channels on cable/satellite TV ( eg: TATA Sky, DISH, DEN Networks)
Porter five forces
• Bargaining power of suppliers – Moderate, Production houses & 
studios do have influencing power, but high OTT demand & 
subscriptions brings a balance to the market
• Bargaining power of buyers – High, Several options available & low 
switching costs amongst OTT platforms
• Threat of new entrants – Weak; Established players have strong 
brand recognition & user base; Large investments
• Threat of substitutes – Moderate, due to alternative options such 
as free platforms (YouTube, Twitch), gaming & social media
• Competitive rivalry – Strong; Aggressive marketing, content 
acquisition, content uniqueness, regional catering & competitive pricing
Industry Specifics
• Television – Traditional broadcast & cable/satellite-based content
• Over-the-Top (OTT) – On-demand internet-based streaming platforms 
allowing online/offline viewing of content
• IPTV – Internet Protocol Television where broadcast happens over internet 
and can combine TV channels with OTT platforms (eg: Jio Fiber, Tata Sky 
Binge+ and ACT Stream TV)
PESTLE
• Social – OTT platforms must cater to the diverse Indian demographic; 
+ve shift in consumer behavior towards OTT
• Technological – Importance of internet/phone penetration 
• Legal: TRAI sets guidelines on channel pricing; Regulatory oversight & 
censorship on OTT content
Cable TV & OTT In-Depth Analysis
An Attempt to give future consultants a better idea of the industry
• Video Consumption Patterns – Gradual shift from TV Channels to internet-
based streaming causing decline of DTH & growth of OTT
• High Customer Acquisition Costs – Companies spend up to ₹2000 per 
customer in marketing. for revenue worth ₹500
• Converting Free Users into Paid ones – Despite high MAU levels for free-
users, OTT players have paid user conversion below 10%
• Bundling of OTT services – Telecom providers such as Jio or Airtel bundle 
multiple OTT subscriptions as part of data plans
• Convergence of TV & Digital media – TV networks are proactively 
establishing presence in OTT segment to remain relevant
Market Segments
BUSINESS MODELS


===== PAGE 275 =====

Industry 
Structure
• Top 4 companies account for around 50% of the total 
production in India; Regional Oligopoly
Prominent 
players
• Market Share (2020): Ultratech cement (31%), Ambuja 
cement (21%), ACC Ltd. (12%), Shree cement Ltd. (10%)
Key 
Performance 
Indicators
• EBIDTA/Ton – Metric of profitability used by 
management to judge performance
• Availability factor: Potential operating time during a 
given period
• Reliability factor: Ability to operate without 
interruption
• Performance factor: Measure of actual output 
performance in relation to expected output
Growth Drivers
• India has high quantity and quality of limestone deposits
• Government initiatives like the PM Gati Shakti and
Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana continue to drive demand
• Cement production reached 374.55 million tonnes in
FY23, with demand projected to grow by 6-7% in FY25
Challenges
• Over-capacity – Excess capacity and low demand are
• Domestic coal shortage – There is limited supply of
coal and price fluctuations; shift to renewables underway
Cement
• Small component as plant 
is set close to limestone 
quarry
• Rail/roadways/ports used 
for other materials
• Limestone → Clinker →
(grinding and additives) →
Cement
• High automation
• Economies of Scale 
• Major freight cost
• Rail-road mix used
• Warehouse network
• Large orders directly to 
dealers/customer
• Strong relationships with 
contractors
• Distribution-dealer 
network for sales
• Bulk order prices are 
lower
• Long-term leasing of 
limestone quarries
• Long-term contracts 
with suppliers (Coal, 
flyash, gypsum)
Raw Material Inbound Logistics Manufacturing Distribution Sales & Marketing
Key Segments
Industry Dynamics
Revenue Segments Cost Segments
Sales of cement (>90%) Power & fuel costs (30%)
Interest income Selling & distribution cost 
including freight (25%)
- Material costs (20%)
• Dynamic pricing – Demand is determined by demand and supply
• Bulky material – Due to high handling and freight costs, manufacturers 
keep their production unit as close as possible to the end consumer
• Capex heavy business – ROAs of a cement plant is close to 1, so a plant 
with 5000 Crs of capex can do a turnover of 5000 Crs
• Size and geographical spread – Allows a company to negotiate better 
with the suppliers. More a company is spread, more can it minimise the 
freight costs and serve a higher market, thus creating a even bigger brand 
Industry Metrics
Overview of the industry

===== PAGE 276 =====

Porter Five Forces
• Bargaining power of suppliers – Medium; Government 
controls licensing of coal & limestone reserves and supply of power 
from grid. Companies opt for backward integration for other 
supplies.
• Bargaining power of buyers – Low; The large cement players 
covering majority of market retain power on the pricing
• Threat of new entrants – Low; High entry barriers owing to high 
capital costs and long gestation periods. Access to limestone 
reserves also acts as a barrier
• Threat of substitutes – Low; Few practical and/or economic 
alternatives leading to low elasticity of demand
• Competitive rivalry – Medium; Oligopolistic market selling a 
homogenous product with low control over pricing
Industry Specific Points
PESTLE
• Political – The current government’s focus on infrastructure 
development is expected to increase demand of cement
• Economic – Demand is highly linked to the economic cycles
• Environmental – Green cement has been on the rise. It offers 
excellent thermal insulation and fire resistance. Indian companies are 
amongst world’s greenest manufacturers
Cement In-Depth Analysis
An Attempt to give future consultants a better idea of the industry
• Global market share – India, with ~8% of global installed capacity is the 
second largest producer of  cement in the world 
• Regional markets – High transportation costs relative to product value 
led to regional markets protected from international competition. Delivering 
the product to customers close to plants result in regional oligopolies
• Customer segments - Retail customer (trade segment, has higher 
margins), Infra customer (Non-trade segment, has lower margins)
• Retail customer – Push market industry, whoever is able to push its 
product to the customer first succeeds. Layman doesn’t differentiate 
between brands
• Sales influencers - Mason and shopkeeper are lead sales influencers in 
case of retail customers
Further Reading: https://www.ibef.org/industry/cement-india
Market Segments
13%
10%
22%55%
Low cost housing
Industrial development
Infrastructure
Housing and real estate

===== PAGE 277 =====

Industry 
Structure
Oligopolistic structure: Top 3 players market share: 
Amazon ~31%, Flipkart ~48%, Reliance ~11%. Meesho is 
challenging the structure with 43% YoY order growth in 
Tier-2/3 cities.
Recent Updates
• E-Commerce Policy to be released soon; expected 
to promote govt.’s ONDC further 
• Luxury online retail boom among major players 
(Reliance, Aditya Birla, etc), boosted by social 
commerce and influencer marketing
Key 
Performance
Indicators
(KPIs)
• Average Order Value (AOV) - Total Revenue 
divided by no. of orders; yields the typical amount spent 
by a customer in an order 
• Customer Acquisition Cost (CAC) - Amount that 
is spent to acquire a new customer 
• Gross Merchandise Value (GMV) - No. of 
transactions multiplied by AOV; represents total sales 
volume in a period
• Shopping Cart Abandonment Rate (SCAR) - 1 
minus cart conversion rate (i.e. sales divided by no. of 
carts); shows ease of the check-out system
Industry 
terminologies
• Omni-Channel Retailers - Integrating sales channels 
for a unified customer experience  
• BNPL - Buy Now Pay Later feature as a short-term 
typically interest-free form of credit
E-Commerce
• Product Manufacturing
• Warehousing
• Supervision
• Inventory-Management
• Order Fulfilment 
• Shipping, Multi-Modal 
Delivery
• Delivery partnerships
• Multi-Channel Marketing
• Advertisements
• Customer Retention 
Strategies
• Return and exchanges
• Customer support
• Feedback
• Supplier Selection
• Procurement of Raw 
Materials
• Transportation
Inbound logistics Operations Outbound Marketing Service
Revenue & Cost Drivers
Growth Drivers and Challenges
Revenue Segments Cost Segments
Commission/Revenue-Sharing Technology
Subscription Fee Shipping and Returns
Ad. Revenue, Affiliate Marketing Warehousing
Delivery Charges Customer Acquisition
GROWTH DRIVERS -
• Grocery and fashion/apparel to be key drivers, with increased purchase
in Tier-2, 3 cities (contributing to 60% orders placed).
• Govt. Initiatives: ONDC; Government e-Marketplace Portal (GeM);
Improved online payments infrastructure in rural India (UPI + Broadband)
• Growth of D2C market: To reach $100Bn by 2025
CHALLENGES –
• Indian Customers prefer CoD payment (has high return rate of ~20%)
• Rising CaC due to increased competition
• Lack of delivery infrastructure in rural areas
• DPDP Act 2023: Increased regulatory scrutiny on data protection and e-
commerce practices
Industry Metrics
Overview of the industry


===== PAGE 278 =====

• Marketplace Model: Zero inventory model where merchants are connected to logistics companies & financial services. For ex: Amazon;
Also includes reselling/ social commerce platforms like eBay, Meesho
• Inventory led model: Websites storing inventory in advance and then sell to customers. For ex: Jabong, BigBasket
Porter five forces
• Bargaining power of suppliers – Moderate; but sellers of 
differentiated products, known brands have higher power
• Bargaining power of buyers – High due to high price sensitivity, 
high tendency of consumers to ROPO (Research Online, Purchase 
Offline)
• Threat of new entrants – Moderate; lower entry barriers than 
brick-and-mortar stores; restrictions on B2C FDI
• Threat of substitutes – High; low-cost switching, high ROPO, 
increased “showrooming” by brick & mortar stores
• Competitive rivalry – Very High; concentrated market with key 
players like Flipkart, Amazon in price wars
Industry Specifics
• Retail– Includes fashion, electronics, books, ex- Flipkart, Nykaa
• Travel- Facilitates mobility and lodging, ex- Uber, Airbnb
• Food and groceries- Include instant delivery platforms
• Online services- Include digital payments, hyperlocal services
• Matrimony and classified– Job portals, real estate included
PESTLE
• Technology – AR/VR technologies and virtual storefronts 
• Environmental – Sustainable packaging gaining relevance
• Legal – 100% FDI allowed in marketplace businessmodel but FDI 
not allowed in inventory-driven model
• Social-Tier 2, 3 now contributing to 60% online retail order
E-Commerce In-Depth Analysis
An Attempt to give future consultants a better idea of the industry
• Private-Public Partnerships- HUL, ITC, PayTM, Meesho join Govt.’s Open 
Network for Digital Commerce (ONDC);  Walmart and Flipkart partner with 
Telangana govt. to support MSME digitization 
• Increasing PE/VC Investment– Despite ‘funding winter,’ startups in quick 
commerce and D2C brands remain attractive, key events- Zomato-Blinkit
acquisition (2022), Walmart’s increased stake (+$3.5B) in Flipkart to 80.5% 
• Rise of Omni-Channels- Emergence of Buy-Online-PickUp-in-Store (BOPIS) 
and Ship-from-store options (ex. Decathlon, Croma)
• Rise of Quick Commerce- Blinkit, Swiggy Instamart, Zepto
• Rise of D2C- Gen Z preferring D2C brands, Ex- Lenskart, Mamaearth, BoAt
• Internal Restructuring– Massive layoffs in e-commerce firms like Amazon, 
Meesho, Ola, BlinkIt to restructure and cut costs
Market Segments
Further Reading: IBEF Report
BUSINESS MODELS


===== PAGE 279 =====

Industry 
Structure • $7.4 bn Industry; To grow to $29bn by FY30
Recent Updates
• Favorable Budget 2024 focused on building digital 
ecosystems and promoting AI usage
• Massive Layoffs across Ed-Tech as cost-cutting 
measures in wake of funding freezes
• Cooldown of the M&A consolidation phase 
within the industry, but expected to rise 
Key 
Performance
Indicators
(KPIs)
• Monthly Active Users (MAU) - # of unique users 
engaging with the platform monthly
• Life Time Value (LTV) – Based on purchase 
frequency, order value & relationship length
• Customer Acquisition Cost (CAC) – Money 
spent on marketing & sales efforts
• Churn Rate - % of customers who cancel or 
discontinue the service
• Conversion Rate - % of free users who upgrade to 
paid subscriptions/services
Industry 
terminologies
• MOOCs – Online courses open to a large learner 
base (Free with paid certification)
• LMS – Applications for developing, tracking, 
delivering & assessing learning programs
EdTech
• Content Delivery
• Pre-Installed Devices
• Materials & Resources
• Order Processing
• Educators Network
• Software Developers
• Production & Direction
• Platform Infrastructure
• Pricing Structures
• Ads & Social Media
• Sales Agent Network
• Tie-ups with schools,   
colleges & universities
• Customer Onboarding
• Technical Support
• Learning Management 
Systems
•Assessment & Feedback 
• Content Curation
• UI & UX Development
• App & Site Mgmt.
• Test/Exam Interfaces
Operations OutboundInbound Logistics Marketing Service
Revenue & Cost Drivers
Growth Drivers and Challenges
Revenue Segments Cost Segments
Subscriptions/One-Time Purchases Software & Infrastructure
Ad Revenues & B2B Partnerships Content Development 
Platform Fees (Commissions) Marketing & User Acquisition 
Costs
GROWTH DRIVERS -
• Rising User Base : High penetration of internet/smart devices & growing 
online content consumption
• Gamification: Immersive experience through simulations, level 
advancement badges, incentive-based learning
• Demand of Skilled Professionals: Young employable population fuels 
demand for constant upskilling & reskilling
CHALLENGES –
• Funding Winter: Led to mass layoffs & shutting of businesses; Emphasis on 
sustainable & capital efficient business models
• Resurgence of classroom-based learning post Covid-19
Industry Metrics
Overview of the industry


===== PAGE 280 =====

• Bargaining power of suppliers – High, due to shortage and 
competition for popular & renowned educators
• Bargaining power of buyers – High, due to availability of several 
EdTech providers and low switching costs
• Threat of new entrants – High during pandemic due to low 
CAPEX requirements & high demand; Presently Low due to 
unsustainable business models leading to low profits 
• Threat of substitutes – Moderately High, due to the resurgence of 
physical models post pandemic recovery
• Competitive rivalry – High; Intense competition amongst players 
vying to onboard new learners
• Freemium- Offering a basic version (limited access to content) of the educational platform for free & additional charges for premium fe atures & upgrades 
• B2B Partnerships & Training- Collaborating with educational institutions and corporate entities to provide tailored services
• Subscription-Based- Users pay a recurring fee (monthly or annually) to gain access to educational content & services
• Module-Based- Educators create topic-based modules and sell content on platforms like Unacademy
• Marketplace- Companies (Coursera, Udemy) create a common platform where educators sell their content to learners (Commissions & Platform C harges)
Porter Five Forces 
 Industry Specifics
• K12: Supplementary app/site-based learning targeted at students between 
Nursery & Class XII (eg – Byjus, Vedantu, PhysicsWallah)
• Test Preparation : For exams such as JEE, NEET, CAT, UPSC & GMAT 
(Unacademy, Toppr, LeapScholar)
• Skill Development : For upskilling & reskilling needs (eg: Scaler)
• Online Certification : Specialization in specific subjects without spending as 
much time as involved in a degree (eg: UpGrad)
PESTLE
• Political- Government push to upgrade digital infrastructure
• Technological – Adoption of AI/AR/VR tools into EdTech can 
revolutionize the overall learning experience
• Legal-Scrutiny over data privacy & consumer protection laws, IP and 
Copyright Risk from Educators copying learning contents
EdTech In-Depth Analysis
An Attempt to give future consultants a better idea of the industry
• Low Profitability: Exorbitant expenses in marketing & customer acquisition 
around 70-80% of the total revenue leads to immense cash burn eating into 
the bottom line
• Funding Winter: EdTech funding fell from $6bn+ during COVID-19 to just 
$283mn post-COVID due to macroeconomic factors. This led to failure of 
cash-burn based startups and a slew of cost-cutting measures such as layoffs
• Government Initiatives: Programs such as SWAYAM, National Digital 
Library & Skill India are creating a favorable ecosystem for digital learning which 
EdTech companies can capitalize on
Market Segments
BUSINESS MODELS


===== PAGE 281 =====

Industry 
Structure
• Indian EV market is expected to grow to $113.9 Bn 
by 2029 at 66% CAGR
• 940k two-wheelers and 80k four-wheelers sold, 
accounting for ~7% of total vehicle sales of 2023-24
Types of EVs
• BEV/PHEV/HEV vehicles – EVs categorised as 
Battery EVs, Plug-in Hybrid EVs and Hybrid EVs 
based on powertrain
Key 
Performance
Indicators
(KPIs)
• Driving range – Distance the EV can cover in a 
single charge
• Lifetime cost savings – Difference in the 
ownership costs between EV and ICE vehicle
• Uptime – Duration when EV is in operation from 
charge to charge
• Charging station density – No. of charging 
stations per sq.km to calculate penetration of 
charging infrastructure
• Usage frequency of charger – Indicates utilization 
of charging station
Industry 
terminologies
• Range Anxiety – Fear that EV may run out of 
battery power before reaching destination 
• Powertrain – Mechanical system converting 
chemical energy to mechanical for propulsion
Electric Vehicles
• R&D in EV design
• Battery tech
• Vehicle assembly
• Quality control and safety 
tests
• Warehousing and 
distribution
• Dealership network
• Booking systems and 
online sales
• Financing options
• Deals and incentives
• Maintenance and 
development of charging 
infrastructure
• Car and battery service
• Raw materials sourcing 
(Li, Ni, Co)
• Motors and 
semiconductors
Inbound Logistics Operations Outbound Logistics Sales & Marketing After-Sales
Revenue & Cost Drivers
Growth Drivers and Challenges
Revenue Segments Cost Segments
Vehicle and Battery Sales Design and R&D
Charging Station Fees Building Charging Infrastructure
Government Incentives Powertrain (battery, motor, 
semiconductors)
GROWTH DRIVERS -
• Increased environmental awareness, focus on net-zero emission
• Reduced dependence on imported fossil fuels
• Governmental policies (FAME I & FAME II schemes) aimed at EV adoption
• Lower operating costs & quiet operation in comparison to ICE
CHALLENGES –
• Requires sustained supply of rare Earth metals and chips
• High purchase cost, ~1.5x price of ICE vehicles on an average
• Limited charging infrastructure
• Nascent stage of battery tech, limiting range
Industry Metrics
Overview of the industry

===== PAGE 282 =====

• Vehicle manufacturing – Sale of electric two-, three-, and four-wheelers for personal and commercial use
• Fleet leasing and subscription – EVs leased out to corporates and commercial aggregators (BluSmart, Evera, Ola, etc.)
• Charging providers – Focus on setting up charging network and generating revenue through units charged and allied facilities
• Battery swapping – Focus on swapping depleted EV batteries for charged ones at designated swapping stations
Porter Five Forces
• Bargaining power of suppliers – High; Specialized nature of 
batteries and raw materials
• Bargaining power of buyers – Low; Small number of cost 
effective and safe options
• Threat of new entrants – Moderate; Government incentives, 
yet high R&D cost and capital investment
• Threat of substitutes – Moderate; Established ICE vehicles with 
low purchase prices & consumers moving towards sustainable tech
• Competitive rivalry – High; Low differentiation in two-wheeler 
segment and hybrid electric vehicles in market
Industry Specifics
• 2-wheelers – Scooters accounting for 55% EV market share, with Ola 
Electric, TVS and Ather as top players, with ~180km as the average range
• 3-wheelers – Autos accounting for 32% EV market share, with Mahindra, 
YC and Seara as top 3 players
• Cars/4-wheelers – Accounts for 6% of EV market share, with Tata 
Motors (75%) and MG Motor (10%) as the top players, with ~350km as the 
average range
• Electric Buses – Tata Motors, JBM Auto, and Olectra are the top 3 eBus
players, with an average range of 200km
PESTLE
• Political – INR 6000 Cr aggregate budget allocation towards 
subsidies for EV adoption for EMPS and FAME II
• Environmental – Moving towards net-zero carbon emissions
• Technological – Research on improving battery tech and exploring 
alternatives including fuel cell and solar EVs
EV In-Depth Analysis
An Attempt to give future consultants a better idea of the industry
• Charging infrastructure – 12k charging stations in India, 22k estimated 
numbers by 2024
• EV adoption– EV Two- and three-wheelers to account for 6% and 15%, 
and four-wheelers up to 5% of category-wise new vehicle sales
• Oil demand slowdown – According to Petroleum ministry, demand for 
crude is expected to fall due to increasing EV adoption
• T otal EVs on the road– 1% of total vehicles in India are EVs
Market Segments of Vehicles
Business Models
Further Reading: Deloitte Electric Vehicles Report | ADL India’s Electric Mobility Potential


===== PAGE 283 =====

Industry 
structure
• Duopoly with only 2 major players – Zomato at 
~57% and Swiggy at ~43%
Industry Size • ~$7.8B expected to grow at 10-12% CAGR till 2030 
Key 
Performance 
Indicators 
(KPIs)
• Average Order Value (AOV) – Determines 
profitability at a unit level – higher AOV helps 
covering delivery cost which is a fixed expense per 
order (~INR 400 for Zomato)
• Customer acquisition cost (CAC) – Indicates 
cost-benefit of deeper market penetration
• Monthly active users (MAUs) – Separates active 
users from dormant accounts to give a truer picture 
of business performance
• Customer Lifetime Value (CLTV)– Estimated 
revenue from a customer throughout their engagement 
with the platform
Industry 
terminologies
• Cloud Kitchen – A kitchen for fulfilling online food 
orders without dine-in/ physical storefront
• Delivery Radius – The geographic area within 
which a restaurant/ food delivery platform can deliver 
orders
• QSR- Quick Service Restaurants (McDonalds, 
Burger King etc)
Food Delivery
• Menu Listing
• Commission setting
• Quality control (GST 
registration, Licenses)
• Customer onboarding
• Customer acquisition 
through marketing
• UI/UX optimization
• Fleet management
• Co-ordination between 
restaurants & customers
• Complaint redressal
• Live order tracking
• Reflection of customer 
feedback in restaurant 
listings
• Coding an online 
marketplace
• Interface between 
restaurants and 
customers
Platform 
Development
Restaurant 
Onboarding Customer Discovery Operations Customer Service
Revenue & Cost Drivers
Growth Drivers and Challenges
Revenue Segments Cost Segments
Commissions from restaurants Delivery cost
In-App advertisement Marketing (Ads, discounts)
Delivery charge Employee cost
Ancillary services (Zomato Gold) Software development costs
GROWTH DRIVERS –
• Highly underpenetrated market at 12% in contrast to 20-27% in 
mature markets (e.g. China, South Korea)
• 40%+ YoY growth in cloud kitchens and QSR over CY2019-23 
driven by low operational costs and higher ordering propensity among the 
youth 
• Gen-Z and younger cohorts account for 40% of consumption, and this is 
expected to rising with growing incomes
CHALLENGES –
• Government’s ONDC (Open Network for Digital Commerce), operational 
in 200+ cities, to challenge Swiggy-Zomato duopoly with its offerings at a 
30-80% discount relative to incumbent peers
• High attrition rates marked by decreasing incomes of food delivery partners
Industry Metrics
Overview of the industry

===== PAGE 284 =====

• Aggregator with delivery services – Provision of marketplace service along with fleet management for delivery to consumer
• Aggregator without delivery services - Marketplace service without delivery services (mostly for established chains like Dominos)
• In-House food production - Vertical integration to develop own restaurants using customer data (similar to Amazon basics)
Porter Five Forces
• Bargaining power of suppliers – Low; Restaurants heavily 
dependent on platforms for customer acquisition;  many suppliers with 
only 2 apps leads to low supplier power
• Bargaining power of buyers – High; Low switching cost for buyers –
can easily get their demand fulfilled via switching to a different platform
• Threat of new entrants – Low; High entry barriers owing to high 
investments and regulations – profitability expected only with a large 
scale
• Threat of substitutes – High; Buyers opt for in-restaurant dining, in-
house cooking, delivery from restaurant
• Competitive rivalry – High; Competitive rivalry between existing 
players is very fierce due to limited differentiation
Industry Specifics
• Restaurant commission – Charged from restaurants (20-30%)
• In-App ads – Ads for priority listing on customer feed along with customized 
messaging such as videos
• Delivery & service charge – Service & packaging charge to customers on a 
per order basis
PESTLE
• Social – Glocalization (growing interest in international cuisines) is an 
emerging trend with >45% of food services driven by intl. cuisines
• Technological – Rising digitization with self-ordering kiosks in QSRs 
(e.g. KFC), increased traffic on discovery platforms (e.g. EazyDiner)
Food Delivery In-Depth Analysis
An Attempt to give future consultants a better idea of the industry
• Competition from direct ordering channels – Many restaurants such as 
Dominos & McDonald’s have developed direct ordering channels to sidestep 
hefty commissions charged by aggregators
• Emphasis on quicker service – 20 min express delivery launched by 
Domino’s and 7 min express pick-up by KFC to enhance customer experience 
• Key metrics* – Monthly active users for top delivery apps: 50M+, monthly 
active users for leading QSR apps: 10M+ 
• Emergence of low and zero commission models – Apart from ONDC, 
platforms such as WAAYU and Thrive rely on minimal commission models and 
leverage analytics to enhance restaurants’ access to customer information
• M&A to drive horizontal expansion – Zomato acquired Paytm’s ticketing 
business (August 2024) and Swiggy acquired LYNK (online groceries) (July 2023) 
to expand set of offerings 
Revenue Segments
Further Reading: How India Eats; Sources: Zomato annual report
Further Reading: How India Eats; Sources: Zomato annual report
Business Models


===== PAGE 285 =====

Industry 
Structure
• Fragmented with ~75% of the industry unorganized 
across food segments.
• Some major players- Nestle, Parle Agro, Britannia 
Industries, Cadbury
Recent 
Updates
• Market size is expected to be $535Bn by 2025 at a 
CAGR of ~15%
• Government expected to pass a 100-day agenda for 
strengthening agricultural supply chain
Key 
Performance
Indicators
(KPIs)
• Yield– Percentage of products correctly 
manufactured without rework or scrap
• Extent of Food Processing %: Input used by 
processors divided by net production
• Food Loss and Waste- Quantum and value of 
food wasted in handling, processing, etc
• Food Safety Audit Scores- Scores reflecting a 
plant’s adherence to food safety regulations and 
standards in an audit
Industry 
terminologies
• RTE/RTC– “Ready to Eat” requires no preparation 
to be utilized, “Ready to Cook” needs to be cooked 
to a certain temperature
• MoFPI- Ministry of Food Processing Industries: 
oversees policy support for agricultural processing 
and associated R&D
Food Processing
• Cold and temperature-
controlled storage
• Warehousing
• Cleaning, sorting, grading, 
pulping, juicing, 
pasteurization, solidifying 
• Packaging and sorting
• Insurance
• Reefer transport
• Wholesalers
• Retailers and e-commerce
• Export
• Ration Shops (PDS)
• Farm produce
• Dairy products
• Pisciculture and meat 
products
Raw Material Inbound Logistics Processing Transportation Distribution
Revenue & Cost Drivers
Growth Drivers and Challenges
Revenue Segments Cost Segments
Retail Sales Raw Materials
Export Sales Warehousing
B2B Sales Spoilage
GROWTH DRIVERS -
• Increased urbanization, higher disposable incomes and more nuclear families
driving up processed food demand
• Rise in consumption of processed foods expected in Tier II and Tier III cities,
mirroring metropolitan areas
• Food processing in India still at nascent stages (<10% of total food output)
indicating potential gap for future growth
CHALLENGES –
• Infrastructural gaps- ~30% farm produce in India lost due to inadequate
cold chain infrastructure; lack of all-weather roads
• High import duties and difficulty in credit financing
• High seasonality of operations and inadequate quality control
Industry Metrics
Overview of the industry


===== PAGE 286 =====

• Manufacturer or Producer Model- Manufacturing the final product typically from start-to-end (Parle Products, Britannia Industries)
• Cooperative Model- Producers collectively produce and process the commodities (Amul, Mother Dairy)
• Value Added Processing- Value addition to pre-processed materials through ingredients or processes (MTR foods, Priya Foods)
• Farm to Table/ Customer Model (F2C)- Processed food or farm produce directly reaches the consumer. (Licious, Country Delight)
Porter five forces
• Bargaining power of suppliers – Low, large number of sellers 
with comparatively limited resources and undifferentiable products
• Bargaining power of buyers – Moderate,  price sensitive but 
fragmented buyers with small order sizes
• Threat of new entrants – Low, large  investment outlay needed, 
adherence to FSSAI regulations and govt. policies 
• Threat of substitutes – High, organic produce and homemade 
food pose as substitutes 
• Competitive rivalry – High, competitive and fragmented market 
with largely replicable and undifferentiated products
Industry Specifics
Agri-commodities as inputs to food processing:
• Cereals, Pulses & Oilseeds- includes rice, wheat, corn, etc.
• Fruits and vegetables- makes 28% of nation’s agricultural output
• Meat and poultry- includes beef, mutton, and poultry
• Dairy products- India is the world’s largest milk producer
PESTLE
• Political – PMKSY scheme to build infrastructure; PMFME to 
support micro-enterprises in the industry; ‘One District- One 
Product’ initiative and Public Linked Initiative scheme
• Legal – Compliance to FSSAI standards is mandatory
• Technological- Rise of Farming as a Service (FaaS) solutions
Food Processing In-Depth Analysis
An Attempt to give future consultants a better idea of the industry
• Mega Food Parks- Govt. initiative of clustering food processing 
technology in defined industrial plots with robust supply chain infrastructure. 
Currently, 24 such parks are operational
• Dairy packaging innovations- Novel technologies such as Ultra-High 
Temperature (UHT) Processing and aseptic packaging enabling longer shelf 
life of dairy products
• Centralized credit facilities and marketplaces- Agriculture Investment 
Fund (AIF) for credit support and e-NAM (National Agriculture Market) for 
aiding farmers access competitive prices
• Higher consumption of horticulture crop- Higher demand for 
sustainably grown produce; horticulture is the most productive sector
Market Segments
Further Reading: IBEF Report, Invest India 
BUSINESS MODELS


===== PAGE 287 =====

Industry 
Dynamics
• 35% of the revenue comes from rural India.
• Major players; HUL, ITC, Nestle, Varun Beverages, 
Godrej Consumer Products Ltd, Britannia industries
Recent 
Updates
• Robust demand: Indian food processing market size 
is expected to reach US$ 470 billion by 2028, 
exhibiting a growth rate (CAGR) of 9.5% 
• Higher Investment: In February 2024, Varun 
Beverages announced of investing Rs. 3,500 crores 
(US$ 421.69 million) to setup manufacturing plants
Key 
Performance
Indicators
(KPIs)
• Outlet Coverage; number of outlets getting 
covered by a salesman within his quota of outlets at a 
time. 
• Must Sell Products (MSPs):  sale of specific 
products that the outlet would readily buy because of 
the existing demand
• Throughput (Average Sales); dividing the 
quantum of sales made by a salesperson for an entire 
day by the total number of outlets visited
Industry 
terminologies
• Primary Sales: Sales from company to distributor
• Secondary Sales: Sales from distributor to retailer
• Offtakes (Tertiary Sales): From retailer tocustomer
• Beat: Route a salesman follows on a particular day. 
Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG)
• Production and quality 
assurance
• Packaging and quality 
control
• Inventory management
• Order management
• Dispatch and delivery
• Invoicing and shipping
• Brand promotion & advertising
• Customer relationships and 
order management
• Sales analysis & market 
research
• Product maintenance
• Customer education and 
training
• Upgrade and warranty 
services
• Quality control
• Raw material sourcing 
and  storage
Inbound Logistics Operations Outbound Logistics Sales & Marketing Services
Revenue & Cost Drivers
Growth Drivers and Challenges
Revenue Cost 
Pricing Raw materials
Promotion Manufacturing & Packaging
Distribution Distribution & Promotion
GROWTH DRIVERS -
• Digital advertising grew to reach US$ 9.92 billion by 2023, with the FMCG
industry being the biggest contributor at 42% share
• Market has grown exponentially due to the surge in internet & smartphone
users, improved policy reforms, & increase in disposable income.
• The Union government approved a new PLI scheme for the food processing
sector, with a budget outlay of Rs. 109 billion (US$ 1.46 billion)
CHALLENGES –
• Regional companies with robust value chains pose a major challenge to large
FMCG corporations.
• Supply Chain Vulnerability: Substantial delays in operations due to minor
challenges
• Infrastructure Deficiencies: Inadequate transportation and storage facilities
Industry Metrics
Overview of the industry

===== PAGE 288 =====

• E-commerce Retailing: Online platforms for direct-to-consumer sales, including large marketplaces(e.g., Amazon, Flipkart) & specialized niche sites 
• Private Label Manufacturing: Retailers with their own branded products to compete with brands, often offering lower prices & unique formulations.
• Subscription Services: Monthly curated product boxes (e.g., beauty, snacks) directly to consumers, enhancing customer loyalty and retention.
• Omnichannel Distribution: Integrating online and offline channels, allowing consumers to purchase through various touchpoints
• Sustainable Sourcing: Focusing on environmentally friendly products, appealing to consumers who prioritize sustainability and social responsibility
Porter Five Forces
• Bargaining power of suppliers – Low. Big companies control 
pricing, fragmented commodity supplier
• Bargaining power of buyers – High. Low switching cost.
• Threat of new entrants – Moderate. Investment in distribution 
network, promotions, advertising.
• Threat of substitutes – High. Narrow product differentiation, 
price war.
• Competitive rivalry – High. Highly fragmented, strong brands 
at a discount
Industry Specifics
• Food and Beverages; (19%) Juices and Drinks, Tea and Coffee, Fresh 
Food, Others
• Personal Care and Cosmetics; (50%) Body Care, Hair Care, Oral 
Care, Skin Care, Baby Care, Health Care , Feminine Care
• Home Care; (31%) Cleaning Products, Fragrance, Others
• Technology – With the advent of online retail and e-commerce, 
FMCG businesses are able to market and sell their products across 
the country without investing much in marketing activities. 
• Legal – Primary legal frameworks governing the FMCG sector in India 
include the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, the Food Safety and 
Standards Act (FSSAI), and the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940
FMCG In-Depth Analysis
An Attempt to give future consultants a better idea of the industry
• Bridging the Urban-Rural Divide; The consumption gaps between 
urban and rural markets is gradually narrowing down, with rural areas 
witnessing a commendable 5.8% growth, closely approaching the urban 
growth rate of 6.8%.
• Contrast in Consumption Trends; There is a sequential slowdown in 
volume growth, particularly in urban markets, while rural markets 
experience a slight decline during Q4’23 compared to Q3’23. 
• Modern Trade Continues to Shine In the retail sector, Modern Trade 
maintains its high double-digit growth at 16.8%, showcasing resilience and 
sustained demand. However, Traditional Trade experiences a decline from 
7.5% in Q3 to 5.3% in Q4 2023
Market Segments
Business Models
PESTLE
Further Reading: IBEF Report 

===== PAGE 289 =====

Industry 
Structure
• Expected to grow to ~$640Bn by 2025 at a CAGR of 
20-25%
• E-Health (telemedicine, electronic health records, 
etc.) market to reach ~$11Bn by 2025 
Recent Updates
• Public expenditure on healthcare ~2.1-2.2% of 
GDP, falling short of 2.5% target set during NHP 
• Five AIIMS (All India Institutes of Medical Sciences) 
inaugurated in February 2024, taking the total to 26
Key 
Performance
Indicators
(KPIs)
• Avg. revenue per occupied bed – Total inpatient 
revenue/number of occupied beds
• Mean length of hospital stay – Average number 
of days a patient stays in a facility
• Bed occupancy rate – % number of beds occupied 
in a healthcare facility
• Patient Wait Time – Avg amount of time a patient 
needs to wait before admission
Industry 
terminologies
• Patient burden – Strain caused as a result of
interaction with the healthcare system
• Copay – Fixed out-of-pocket amount paid by the 
insured for covered services
• CDMO – Contract development and manufacturing 
organization
Healthcare
• Inpatient and outpatient 
episodes
• Lab tests
• Prescriptions
• Procedures 
• Rx fulfillment
• Copay/out-of-pocket
• Insurance claims 
processing
• Scheduling follow-ups
• Discounts for screenings 
and tests
• Insurance tie-ups
• Vaccination and 
awareness drives
• Ambulance
• Teleconsultation
• Home care
• Remote monitoring
• Training healthcare 
practitioners
• Infrastructure setup
• Pharmaceutical supplies 
and stock
Inbound Logistics Diagnosis & 
Treatment Post Treatment Sales & Marketing Services
Revenue & Cost Drivers
Growth Drivers and Challenges
Revenue Segments Cost Segments
Hospitals and clinics Infrastructure setup
Diagnostics Employee costs
Pharmaceuticals Maintenance and upgrades
GROWTH DRIVERS –
• Key government initiatives including Ayushman Bharat, which is the world’s
largest health assurance program
• Rising manpower and medical colleges have created availability of well-
trained medical professionals, with 1.3Mn+ registered allopathic doctors
• Increasing investments in Indian medtech and biotech due to companies
diversifying beyond China to mitigate trade risks (China plus one strategy)
CHALLENGES –
• Skewed doctor-population ratio in rural and urban, with ~4 urban doctors
for every 1 rural doctor
• ~47% of patient health expenses are out-of-pocket spends, despite support
from Ayushman Bharat, creating financial strain on the patient
Industry Metrics
Overview of the industry

===== PAGE 290 =====

• Healthcare delivery – IPD and OPD facilities, clinics, facilities specializing in specific domains of medicine (for ex., ortho, neuro, etc.)
• Rx fulfilment – Brick and mortar shops, hospital embedded pharmacies, and online platforms (for ex., 1mg, Pharmeasy, etc.)
• Telemedicine – Low-cost teleconsultation and diagnosis facilities through mobile app/internet, with cross-selling of allied services
• Drug discovery – Biopharma R&D units focusing on developing novel therapies
• Bargaining power of suppliers – High; Healthcare facilities are 
dependent on quality inputs
• Bargaining power of buyers – Moderate; Dependence on 
insurance, however, has low switching costs
• Threat of new entrants – Moderate; Increasing investments in 
space, yet regulations are rate limiting
• Threat of substitutes – Moderate; Increasing prevalence of 
ayurveda, lifestyle changes, and self-diagnosis
• Competitive rivalry – High; Competitive market with numerous 
public and private healthcare providers
• Hospitals – Accounts for 70% of the market, with Apollo, Fortis, and Max 
being the top players
• Pharmaceuticals – Accounts for 20% of the market | Biotechnology is a sub-
segment with focus on biopharma
• Medical tech – Accounts for 10% of market share | Diagnostics is sub-
segment, ~25% in organized sector (15% labs, 10% radiology)
PESTLE
• Political – National Medical Devices (2023) and medical device parks 
to ease investment approvals, Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission and 
initiatives such as e-Sanjeevani OPD to improve digital health infra
• Social – Growing elderly population, rising incidence of cancer, 
diabetes, obesity, and stress-related health problems (e.g. hypertension)
• Technological – AI-based applications to improve patient access, 
precision medicine and AI/ML to enhance innovation in pharma
Healthcare Industry In-Depth Analysis
An Attempt to give future consultants a better idea of the industry
• Medical tourism – India continues to be a preferred medical destination, with 
an ~10% increase in number of tourists from 2012 to 2023
• Frequent M&As – Flipkart acquires Sastasundar, Reliance acquires Netmeds, 
Tata acquires 1mg, Temasek acquires Manipal Health Enterprises, Blackstone 
acquires a controlling stake in Care hospitals among others
• Increasing innovation–12 of top 20 pharma companies (e.g. AstraZeneca, 
Pfizer); set up GCCs (Global Capability Centers) in India; domestic companies 
also ramping up innovation (e,g, Cipla invested in Achira Labs)
• Rising investor interest – Pharma service firms made up 55% of total funding 
flows in FY24 compared to 15-25% before FY23
• ‘Phygital’ model – Healthtech players increasing offline touchpoints to 
operate with a physical+digital model (e.g. PharmEasy, Redcliffe Lifetech, etc.)
Market Segments
Business Models
Further Reading: EY Report, IBEF Report 
Porter Five Forces Industry Specifics

===== PAGE 291 =====

Industry 
Structure
• Fragmented; Top Premium/Luxury Hotels in India –
Marriot, IHCL (Taj), ITC, Hyatt, Oberoi
Recent Updates
• Radisson and IHCL have launched expansion projects 
in Bihar and Odisha as budget proposals encouraged 
tourism development
• IHCL and CG partner to launch 25 hotels by 2025
Key 
Performance
Indicators
(KPIs)
• Occupancy Rate - Percentage of total rooms that 
are occupied
• Average Room Rate (ARR) - Total room revenue 
divided by number of rooms sold; can indicate 
insights on pricing strategy
• Revenue per Available Room (RevPAR) - Total 
room revenue divided by total number of available 
rooms; reveals insights on pricing and occupancy 
simultaneously
Industry 
terminologies
• Online Travel Agency (OTA) - A platform where 
hotel and travel services are booked
• MICE - An acronym for Meetings, Incentives, 
Conferences, and Exhibitions relating to the business 
events industry
• B&B- Small lodging accommodation which offers Bed 
and Breakfast
Hospitality
• Service trainings for 
employees, administration 
and management
• Reservations
• Housekeeping
• Concierge
• Catering
• Maintenance
• Advertisements
• Membership deals
• Promotional offers
• Website
• Travel Agents
• Online third-party apps
• Restaurant, bar supplies
• Furniture and Fittings
• Essentials
Suppliers Workforce Operations Marketing Distribution
Revenue & Cost Drivers
Growth Drivers and Challenges
Revenue Segments Cost Segments
Room Tariffs Consumable Materials
Food and Beverage Employee Salaries
Events (Conferences, Exhibitions etc) Renovation and regular 
maintenance 
GROWTH DRIVERS -
• Govt. Initiatives: Swadesh Darshan Scheme 2.0 to promote 15 tourism
states; ‘Dekho Apna Desh’ initiative; states encouraged to open Unity
Mall and sell ODOPs (One district, one product)
• Rise of novel tourism types like medical tourism (Indian Medical Visa in
165 countries, ‘Heal in India’ initiative), Adventure tourism (including
Lighthouse tourism), Rural and Eco-Tourism
• Continued rise of “revenge travel” post Covid-19
CHALLENGES –
• Yet to recover fully from closures and debt accumulation during Covid
• Adapting to requirements of sustainability and digital convenience
Industry Metrics
Overview of the industry


===== PAGE 292 =====

•Independent/Owner operated- Operated by an independent owner with full control, unaffiliated with any brand (Ex. The Leela Palace, The Imperial) 
•Franchise model- Hotel owners retain some control and pay a franchise fee to the hotel management brand to use brand, IP, etc. (Ex. Radisson Blu, Hilton) 
•Managed- Hotel management brand directs day-to-day decision making in a third-party hotel; hotel owners have lesser control (Ex. JW Mariott, Taj Exotica) 
•Leased and Strata titled model- Hotel business owner leases from one or many freehold owners who have little say in operations (Ex. Lemon Tree, Oyo) 
•Brand Operated model- Completely owned and operated by a hotel brand (Ex. ITC, Oberoi Udaivilas) 
Porter five forces
• Bargaining power of suppliers –Moderate; property owners, staff 
play a key role but typically smaller in size
• Bargaining power of buyers – Moderate; high price sensitivity in 
customers (barring premium loyalty programs)
• Threat of new entrants –Low; high entry barriers owing to high 
investments, fixed costs, and regulations
• Threat of substitutes – High; growing popularity of online services 
like Airbnb and Couchsurfing, low switching costs
• Competitive rivalry – High; concentration of large players in 
premium segment, high inventory costs of unoccupied rooms; 
intensifying demand
Industry Specifics
• Accommodation- Hotels, rentals, motels and lodges
• Food & Beverages- Restaurants, cafes, and bars
• Recreation & Entertainment- Ancillary services like spa, pool etc.
• Travel & Tourism- Tour operators, guides, transportation, travel planning
PESTLE
• Technology –Trends include near field communication (NFC) (for 
easy payments), delivery robots, cloud kitchens 
• Environment: Higher ESG awareness promoting ‘Green Key’ 
certifications, govt. opening 50 eco-tourist spots for G20
• Social- Popularity of “Bleisure”- joining business with leisure
Hospitality In-Depth Analysis
An Attempt to give future consultants a better idea of the industry
• New age accommodation– Increase in peer accommodation like 
homestays, BnBs, and cabins, especially in non-urban spaces 
• Tussle with OTAs–OTAs such as Booking.com and Agoda charging up to 25% 
in commissions to influence hotel visibility
• Asset Management Strategy- Asset light business models like Franchising to 
fuel expansion and reduce risk after Covid-19
• Rise of Leisure and Wellness Tourism- Domestic demand driving 
workcations and staycations; wellness tourism growing immensely after Covid
• Rising International Travel- International tourist arrivals are expected to 
reach 30.5 million by 2028.
• Increasing investment- IHCL announces its 7th Taj hotel in Bengaluru, 
Fortune Hotels announced new properties in emerging markets like Rishikesh
Market Segments
Further Reading: IBEF Report 
BUSINESS MODELS


===== PAGE 293 =====

Industry 
Structure
• Life insurance premium income reached around INR 
3.71 lakh crore (USD 44.85 billion) in 2023
• Key Players: LIC (58.87% of life insurance market); 
New India Assurance (12.77%, non-life), SBI Life, etc
Recent Updates
• Non-life insurers' premiums rose 19.5% in FY24, 
driven by health and motor demand.
• Bots becoming mainstream to automate policy serving 
& claims management
Key 
Performance
Indicators
(KPIs)
• Policy Renewal Rate - % of policyholders who 
renew their policies at the end of the term
• Claims Settlement Ratio – Proportion of claims 
settled out of total claims
• Gross Written Premium – Total value of 
premiums written by the insurer before deducting 
reinsurance costs and commission
• Expense Ratio – Proportion of premium used to 
cover operating expenses
• Loss Ratio - % of premiums paid out as claims; ratio 
of incurred losses to premiums
Industry 
terminologies
• Sum Assured – Amount payable to policyholder on 
the occurrence of insured event
• Policy Term – Period for which the insurance policy 
is active or valid
Insurance
• Underwriting assessment
• Risk management
• Asset management
• Product development
• Actuarial Analysis
• Premium pricing models
• Evaluation of claims
• Fraud management
• Claims payout
• Self-adjudication
• Customer relationship 
management
• Call centre improvement
• Data-driven marketing
• Lead generation
• Channel management
• SFA planning & 
implementation
Sales & Distribution Underwriting Product & Pricing Claims Services
Revenue & Cost Drivers
Growth Drivers and Challenges
Revenue Segments Cost Segments
Underwriting activities Claims
Investment income Investment & other op-ex
Cash value cancellations Acquisition, general expenses
GROWTH DRIVERS –
• Growing digital economy, rising insurtech
• Young working demographic, rise in nuclear family structure
• Increasing financial awareness & literacy in urban population
• COVID-19 fueled demand for life, health and other related insurance
products
CHALLENGES –
• Low financial literacy & penetration of insurance products, particularly in
rural areas along with lack of capital
• Fraud; false claims, misrepresentation
• Claims management; complicated, slow & opaque in most cases
Industry Metrics
Overview of the industry


===== PAGE 294 =====

• B2B & B2C – These models are the more traditional ones; B2B customized for businesses, whereas B2C focuses on individuals
• P2P – P2P is a relatively new concept in insurance where insurers from similar backgrounds are pooled to resolve claims conflicts
Porter five forces
• Bargaining power of suppliers – Moderate; few large IT firms 
to support tech, limited number of re-insurers
• Bargaining power of buyers – Moderate; individuals & SMBs 
have low power; however, large businesses have some
• Threat of new entrants – Moderate; threat of financial 
companies & big tech; however, industry is regulated
• Threat of substitutes – Low; no real substitutes, limited scope 
for differentiability; setting up ground-level staff presence is tough
• Competitive rivalry –High; Large number of players in the 
market, rising competition with insurtech
Industry Specifics
• Life Insurance – The life insurance market grew by 18% in FY23, with 
LIC holding 58.87% market share and recording 6.1% growth, 
and private insurers showing strong growth
• Non-Life Insurance – The non-life insurance sector grew 16.4% in FY23, 
driven by health, motor, and crop insurance, with premiums reaching US$ 
31 billion. New India Assurance, the largest player, recorded a 12.77%
market share.
PESTLE
• Political – The 2024 budget expanded crop insurance to 4 crore 
farmers, extended Ayushman Bharat to ASHA workers, and 
emphasized digital transformation with AI integration in insurance
• Economic – Rising financial awareness; however, use as an 
investment vehicle declining due to other avenues
• Technological – Increasing number of insurtech companies, use of 
AI & automation in underwriting & claims
Insurance In-Depth Analysis
An Attempt to give future consultants a better idea of the industry
• Insurtech & AI – More than 140 insurtech start-ups operating in India; 
B2C models and online-first insurers valued more highly by investors. 
Insurtech companies are also quicker at adapting to technological changes 
such as use of AI
• Foreign Investment – In 2021, Insurance Amendment Bill was passed to 
increase the FDI limit in the insurance sector from 49% to 74%. This will 
help bring down the cost of insurance products in India and will also benefit 
small insurance players
• Public vs Private – Public insurers more affordable & perceived to be 
reliable; however, rising preference for private due to convenience & quick 
resolution
Market Segments
BUSINESS MODELS


===== PAGE 295 =====

Industry 
Structure
• Top 3 players: TCS, Wipro and HCL Tech hold 
majority of the market share with a combined market 
capitalization of over US $300 billion
Recent Updates
• IT companies recorded sharpest contraction in 
headcount in recent past
• TCS reported over 250 generative AI projects in 
its pipeline, with expectations of substantial future 
revenue from this segment
Key 
Performance
Indicators
(KPIs)
• First Call Resolution Rate (FCR): % of issues or 
incidents resolved on first customer interaction. 
• Customer Satisfaction (CSAT): Measures the 
satisfaction of IT customers
• Mean Time to Recovery (MTTR): The average 
time it takes to repair a failed component
Industry 
terminologies
• Software as a Service (SaaS): a model where 
software is licensed on a subscription basis and 
centrally hosted
• IP (Intellectual Property): Intangible creations 
formed through human intellect
• Freemium: A model where basic features are offered 
free of cost and then the company charges a premium 
for advanced features
IT & ITES
• Product development
• Data gathered and used as 
input for product service
• Decide type of 
subscription
• Customer Onboarding & 
Relationship Management
• Platform integration
• Online/usage-based 
billing
• Customer retention
• Analytics to measure 
engagement
• Billing & subscription 
management
• Support / Upgradation
• Maintenance
• Warranty 
• Product vision and 
research
• Selecting development 
platforms & software
Inbound logistics Operations Outbound Marketing & Sales Service
Revenue & Cost Drivers
Growth Drivers and Challenges
Revenue Segments Cost Segments
On Premise Delivery Employee Salaries
Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) Software Costs
Support and Maintenance Charges Hardware Costs
GROWTH DRIVERS -
• Artificial Intelligence is expected to boost India's annual growth rate by 1.3%
by 2035
• Being the low-cost exporter of IT services, India has the potential to venture
into more global markets
• Future-ready digital workforce
CHALLENGES –
• Cyber security threats, aggravated by increasing digitalization of Indian
economy
• Cost of upskilling the workforce
• Requirement for more stringent privacy and data protection rules and laws
Industry Metrics
Overview of the industry


===== PAGE 296 =====

• Knowledge Processing: Dealing directly with data analysis, market intelligence, as well as consulting on business strategy
• Business Process Outsourcing: Outsourcing functions like customer relationship management, enterprise resource planning and even human resource 
management 
• IT Services: Involved in the provision of services like IT consulting, R&D, management of infrastructure, and developmental services
Porter five forces
• Bargaining power of suppliers – High power by cloud service 
providers and specific license providers 
• Bargaining power of buyers – Moderate; buyers have abundance of 
service provider options; however, switching costs are high
• Threat of new entrants – Low as the projects require huge 
investments for delivering quality at a competitive cost
• Threat of substitutes – High as few other countries are emerging as 
potential low-cost labor sources for outsourcing
• Competitive rivalry – Highly competitive market with few large firms 
and minimal differentiation in offerings
Industry Specifics
• IT Services: Accounting for more than 51% of the total IT exports, IT 
services itself accounts for 54% of export revenue in the IT & ITES industry
• BPM: IT & Business Process Management industries are well diversified across 
verticals such as BFSI, telecom and retail, accounting for a total of 22% of 
export revenue in this industry
• E R&D and Software Products: Accounting for 23% of export revenue in 
this industry, the Engineering R&D and software products division has grown 
at the rate of 11.1% in the past year
PESTLE
• Technological: Increasing focus on digitalization, especially post-
COVID
• Legal: Implementation of Digital Personal Data Protection Bill 2023 
regulates numerous threats to the industry
• Economic: Union Budget allocation to IT increased by 26%
IT & ITES In-Depth Analysis
An Attempt to give future consultants a better idea of the industry
• Contribution to GDP: The IT and ITES industry contributes to almost 7.5% 
of India’s overall GDP, and has played a critical role in India’s socio -economic 
growth
• Low-Cost Export: With the largest technologically skilled, English-speaking 
population, India becomes a hub for companies looking to find low-cost labor 
services in IT sector
• BFSI: It is a key vertical for the IT and ITES industry and accounts for sizeable 
IT software and service exports
Market Segments
Further Reading: IBEF Report 
BUSINESS MODELS


===== PAGE 297 =====

• Movement of finished 
goods or products from 
the plants
• Load planning is key 
consideration
• Transportation of 
goods/products from 
end-users to the supply 
chain.
• Used in return, repair, 
recycle.
• 3PL – provide logistics 
services like 
warehousing & 
transportation
• 4PL – overseeing entire 
supply chain
• Logistical operations to 
promote sustainability 
and reduce carbon 
footprint
• Transportation of 
products and supplies to 
manufacturing plants
• Key factors –
warehousing, inventory 
management
Top Players (India)
Name Market share Revenue
(Rs Cr)
DHL 40% 4000
Blue Dart 36% 5267.83
Delhivery 19% 7225
▪ Digital Transformation: increasing revenue of leading logistics solutions 
providers (OEMs) like Kinaxis, BlueYonder, Oracle, SAP, Manhattan 
solutions, Unison, Coupa etc.
▪ Real-time Visibility: rising emphasis by leading FMCG, e-commerce and 
quick commerce companies on real-time tracking and visibility
▪ Robotics: use of robots in warehouses to reduce storage and retrieval 
times
▪ Collaboration: high demand for supply chain collaboration across multiple 
levels to increase transparency.  Increase in revenues of collaboration 
solution OEMs like e2Open, and recent acquisition of One Network by 
BlueYonder. 
Market Trends
Industry DynamicsKey Drivers
Revenue Drivers Cost Drivers Capex Drivers
Transportation Services Fuel Costs Trucks, Vessels, 
Wagons
Logistics Technology Salary & Wages Warehouses
Supply Chain Consulting Packaging Costs Docks, Ports and 
Sidings
Key Segments KPIs Growth Drivers
Road and Rail Cost per km Real-time Visibility and 
Tracking
Air and Sea Capacity Utilisation Quick Commerce
Contract Logistics % On Time Delivery Sustainability
Logistics Industry
Outbound Logistics Reverse Logistics Inbound Logistics 3PL & 4PL Green Logistics
Overview of the industry


===== PAGE 298 =====

• Freight Transportation: Dominated by road networks, with rail slowly gaining more momentum due to government -driven initiatives and investments
• Warehousing: Growing demand for modern, tech-enabled storage and distribution solutions, particularly in major urban and industrial areas
• Third-Party Logistics (3PL): Increasingly popular, especially among large-scale e-commerce companies (e.g., Amazon) for outsourcing logistics operations .
• Cold Chain Logistics: Rising need for efficient, temperature-sensitive transportation of goods such as food, pharmaceuticals, and other perishables 
Porter five forces
• Bargaining Power of Suppliers: Moderate—Fuel, vehicle 
manufacturers impact cost, but competition balances power.
• Bargaining Power of Buyers: High—Many options for customers 
lead to better rates and service negotiations.
• Threat of New Entrants: Moderate—High capital and regulatory 
barriers, but digitalization makes entry easier.
• Threat of Substitutes: Low to Moderate—Few direct substitutes, 
but in-house logistics is an alternative.
• Competitive Rivalry: Strong—Fragmented industry with intense 
competition on price and service.
Industry Specifics
PESTLE
• Political: Government infrastructure projects shape the industry
• .Economic: Demand varies with industrial output and trade.
• Social: Urbanization drives demand for faster deliveries.
• Technological: Tech adoption boosts efficiency in the industry.
• Legal: Regulatory compliance is essential for cross state and local laws.
• Environmental: Push for greener logistics practices is underway.
Logistics In-Depth Analysis
An Attempt to give future consultants a better idea of the industry
• Digital Transformation: The adoption of technology such as GPS, RFID, and 
IoT is revolutionizing supply chain visibility and efficiency.
• High Operating Costs: Fuel costs, vehicle maintenance, and regulatory 
compliance contribute to significant operating expenses.
• Growing E-commerce: The rapid growth of e-commerce is driving demand 
for logistics services, particularly for last-mile delivery.
• Infrastructure Challenges: Poor infrastructure in certain regions leads to 
inefficiencies and delays, impacting overall service quality.
• Government Initiatives: GST and Dedicated Freight Corridor aim to 
enhance the logistics ecosystem.
Market Segments
Business Models
• Asset-Heavy: They own their fleet and infrastructure with high investment
• Asset-Light: These firms Partners with third parties, lower capital expenditure.
• Tech-Driven: They use heavy technology for route planning and tracking.
• E-commerce Logistics: These provide services for online retailers, focusing 
on fast and reverse delivery, in case of returns.


===== PAGE 299 =====

Industry 
Structure
• Record Labels (T-Series, Sony Music India, Zee Music 
Company, Saregama India Ltd.)
• Streaming Platforms (Gaana, JioSaavn, Wynk, Spotify, 
Apple Music, Amazon Music,YT Music)
• Film music comprised 64% of total music 
consumption, but artist-driven music continued to grow 
(27% of the total music consumed in 2023). 
Recent Trends
• Subscriptions are the future.
• Hindi &  Bhojpuri accounted for 70% of the music
• Currently one-off gigs and fests are more common
• Rise in independent music labels and artists.
• Incr collaboration b/w Indian & international artists.
Key
Performance 
Indicators 
(KPI)
• Monthly Active Users & Retention Rates
• Streams Count: Total no. of plays
• Subscriber Growth: Number of paying subscribers
• Average Revenue per User (ARPU) Content
• Acquisition Cost (CAC)
• Churn Rate: % of subscribers who discontinue 
Industry 
Terminologies
• 360 Deal: A contract between a record label and an 
artist (company receives a % of other income the artist 
generates.)
• Blanket License: Issued by a performing rights 
organization (PRO), that gives an entity permission to 
play any song in the rights holder’s catalog 
Music Industry
• Multi-platform Release 
Strategy
• Cross-Device Accessibility
• Global Distribution
• Streaming Server
• Collaborative Distribution
• Artist Relations
• Songwriting & 
Composing
• Rights Acquisition
• Equipment Setup
• Digital Campaigns
• Fan Engagement
• Live Event Promotions
• Analytics-Driven 
Marketing
• Brand Partnerships
• Fan Support Services
• User Experience 
Personalization
• Community Building
• Feedback Integration
• Subscription Services
• Recording and Production
• Mastering, Quality Control
• Content Packaging
• Platform Optimization
• Content Security
Operations DistributionInbound Logistics ServiceSales & Marketing
Revenue & Cost Drivers
Growth Drivers and Challenges
Revenue Drivers Cost Drivers
Streaming Revenue Production Costs
Live Performances Marketing & Promotion
Physical Sales Touring Cost
Licensing and Royalties Artist & Repertoire
Digital Downloads Distribution fees
Industry Metrics
Overview of the industry
GROWTH DRIVERS
• 64% of consumption was film music, this has reduced from ~80% 3 years ago 
as a more artist-driven industry emerged
• Smartphones and Internet Penetration: Making music more accessible,
especially in emerging markets
• Social Media and Digital Marketing: Enhanced music discovery and artist 
engagement
CHALLENGES
• Licensing and Royalty Issues: Complex licensing agreements and royalty 
disputes.
• Piracy: High prevalence impacting legitimate revenue.
• Monetization of Free Users: Difficulty converting free users to subscribers.
• Market Saturation: Intense competition among platforms.

===== PAGE 300 =====

• Prepaid vs. Subscription Services: One-time purchases of individual songs/albums compared to Monthly/yearly fee for unlimited access to a music library .
• Bundling of Services; Subscription bundles offering music streaming, video streaming, and podcasts .
• Broadband for Music Streaming: Partnerships with ISPs for better bandwidth dedicated to high -quality music streaming, ensuring uninterrupted playback
• B2B Services; Licensed music services for businesses like retail and hospitality, services for artists/labels to distribute & manage their music across platforms.
Industry Specifics
PESTLE
• Legal – Amendments to the Copyright Act of 1957 have addressed 
issues; copyright management, cross-border royalties, and artists’ rights.
• Technological – Advanced metadata systems and AI algorithms now 
precisely identify rights holders, drastically reducing unattributed 
royalties. Blockchain technology is revolutionizing royalty management 
by offering secure, transparent tracking and timely payments.
Music Industry In-Depth Analysis
An Attempt to give future consultants a better idea of the industry
• High customer acquisition costs: average cost per customer upto $15
• High licensing and royalty costs to record labels, publishers, and artists
• Low conversion rates from freemium to premium subscribers
• Radio networks expanding into digital music (online stations & podcasts)
• The publication pipeline is immature, and most artists receive no income.
• Less than 1% of industry revenue, $4 million, went to songwriters and 
composers.
• Totaling sales from the three main sub-industries, the Indian music market is 
estimated at $443 million. 
Market Segments
BUSINESS MODELS
• Threat of New Entries- Low to Medium, technological 
advancements have lowered the barriers to entry
• Bargaining Power of Suppliers- Moderate to High, artist 
Power, Technology Providers enjoy power compared to less 
established musicians
• Bargaining Power of Buyers- High, easy to switch b/w services. 
Price sensitive, pressure to offer more for less, impacting profitability.
• Threat of Substitute- High, free streaming services, YouTube, 
and even piracy are significant substitutes
• Rivalry Among Existing Competitors- High, many players, 
including major record labels, independent labels, and countless artists
Porter five forces
• Records; CDs, vinyl, and digital downloads
• Music streaming; includes ad-supported (e.g., Spotify Free, YouTube) and 
subscription-based (e.g., Spotify Premium, Apple Music).
• Music publishing: licencing (revenue from film, TV, commercial, and video 
game licencing), Performance and mechanical royalties to songwriters and 
composers
• Self-sufficient and direct Fan platforms include Bandcamp, SoundCloud, 
and Kickstarter, which allow fans to directly support their favourite artists.
• Synchronisation: Music in film, TV, and commercials Music in video game 
soundtracks and gameplay

===== PAGE 301 =====

Industry 
Structure
• Top 3 players worldwide have 46% market share 
(Sony- 18%, Tencent- 15%, Microsoft- 13%), Top 
gaming companies in India- Dream11, Game24X7, 
Mobile Premier League
Recent 
Updates
• 28% GST continues to be levied by govt. on online 
gaming
• E-sports promotion by Govt. through Create in 
India Challenge launched in August 2024
Key 
Performance
Indicators
(KPIs)
• Daily Active User (DAU)- Total number of 
people who engage with the app on a given day  
(similar to MAU- Monthly Active Users)
• Average Revenue per User (ARPU)- Total 
revenue/number of paying customers 
• Cost per Mille (CPM)- Cost incurred to achieve 
1000 impressions
• Churn Rate- % of players who stopped playing 
over a given period
Industry 
Terminologies
• AAA Titles- Games developed by large studios, 
such as Sony, Tencent
• MeiTY- Ministry of Electronics and IT responsible 
for IT and Online gaming policies in India
• NPU- New Paying Users
Online Gaming
• Producing the game
• Providing technical 
support to developers
• Packaging for the target 
consumer
• Mobile App store
• Online Game store
• Retail game store
• Multi-gaming platform
• Advertisers
• Subscription
• E-Sports purchase and 
streaming
• Data Monetisation
• Mobile, tablet
• PC and Laptops
• Gaming consoles 
• Gaming Centres
• Game Studio 
(developer)
• Royalty Agreements for 
IPR with Brand Owners
Development Publishing Distribution Monetisation Consumption
Revenue & Cost Drivers
Growth Drivers and Challenges
Revenue Segments Cost Segments
Rake Fee/Subscription Game Development and 
Maintenance
Advertising Revenue Licensing Costs
In-App Purchases Publishing and Distribution
E-Sports sale, streaming, merch Marketing
GROWTH DRIVERS -
• Mobile gaming driving the growth of the gaming sector in India (9.5 bn
downloads, highest in the world)
• Rise of E-Sports and competitive gaming in India; Gaming CoE in
Shillong, Meghalaya
• 5G connectivity opening avenues like cloud computing
CHALLENGES –
• Lack of regulatory frameworks of online gaming – uncertainty around
tax laws and data security regulations
• Industry outpaced availability of skilled professionals
• High prevalence of pirated games
Industry Metrics
Overview of the industry


===== PAGE 302 =====

• Free-to-Play (FTP)- Makes it possible for gamers to have a complete user experience with revenue through advertisements
• Freemium– Basic product is free but special features need to be purchased, tends to include IAPs (In-App Purchases)
• Pay to Play- Include subscription-based and paid games where the game has to be purchased before playing 
• Traditional gaming– Physical gaming with consoles or PC games purchased as physical copies, now moving to digital distribution
Porter five forces
• Bargaining power of suppliers- Moderate, no substitute for 
development studios but typically dwarfed by publishers
• Bargaining power of buyers– High, low brand loyalty, product 
dispensability, high price sensitivity especially in mobile gaming
• Threat of new entrants– Moderate, high availability of game 
developers, higher threat for mobile gaming, lower for e-sports 
which tend to require high investment outlay
• Threat of substitutes– High, online gaming competing with other 
leisure activities
• Competitive rivalry- Moderate; product differentiability
Industry Specifics
• Casual Games- Mass marketed game, eg- Ludo, Candy Crush
• Real Money Games- Players play the games for money and stand a 
chance to win more money by further play/gamble, eg-Cashyy
• Esports- Competitive video games with high-skill requirement
• Fantasy Sports- Online prediction games on real sports, eg- FPL
PESTLE
• Technology- AR/VR, AI technologies, Metaverse
• Political- AVGC (Animation, Visual Effects, Gaming and Comic) 
Centre of Excellence by Govt. to raise India’s soft power
• Social- Rising youth participation in gaming post pandemic
Online Gaming In-Depth Analysis
An Attempt to give future consultants a better idea of the industry
• Increasing Investments- Raised $2.8bn in last 5 years, Krafton invests $140 
mn in 11 Indian gaming ventures, expected $6 bn annual revenues by 2028
• Rise of Commercial 5G facilitating Cloud Gaming- In cloud gaming, the 
processing of the games played is on remote servers and not the device itself 
which elevates the gameplay experience
• Increase in E-Sports tournaments- E-Sports to be a medal event in Asian 
Games 2026, inducted since 2022; tournaments by Sony, Star Sports
• Emergence of Blockchain gaming- Blockchain used to record in-game 
transactions, ease the monetization of gameplay
• Popularity of Fantasy Sports in India- World’s largest Fantasy Sports 
market; expected $72 bn market value by 2030
Market Segments
BUSINESS MODELS


===== PAGE 303 =====

Industry 
Structure
• India has 23 refineries, with 18 in the public sector
• Largest players include Indian Oil Corporation 
Limited (IOCL), Oil and Natural Gas 
Corporation (ONGC), and Reliance Industries. 
They dominate entire value chain
Recent Updates
• Indian govt. targeting ethanol blending, aiming for 20% 
by 2025-26, and is investing heavily in oil and gas 
infrastructure, with plans to invest US$ 102.49 billion 
over the next five years. 
• Joint ventures, such as the one between IOCL, L&T, 
and ReNew Power, are focusing on developing green 
hydrogen projects
Key 
Performance
Indicators 
(KPIs)
• Barrels Per Day (BPD): Crude oil production rate
• Gross Refining Margin (GRM): Measures 
profitability of refining crude oil into finished products.
• Refining Capacity Utilization: Assesses refinery 
efficiency relative to maximum capacity
Industry 
terminologies
• Upstream: exploration and production
• Downstream: refining, retailing petroleum products 
• Power Purchase Agreement (PPA): long-term 
electricity buying contracts 
• Capital Project Efficiency: digitized processes 
optimizing project completion and costs
Oil & Gas
• Project Sanction 
• Field Development Plan
• Building facilities & drilling
• Extract fluids from 
reservoir till useful life
• Crude/Gas transport via 
pipelines, tankers, trucks
• Crude stored in ground 
tanks; Gas in underground 
reservoirs
• Refining, distillation and 
conversion to transform 
crude into value-added 
products for fuel/chemical 
applications 
• Wholesale & retail 
distribution of refined 
products to businesses, 
governments & public
• Secure license from govt
• Geological surveys to 
identify & gauge potential 
on/off-shore reserves
Exploration Production Storage & Transport Downstream Distribution 
Revenue & Cost Drivers
Growth Drivers and Challenges
Revenue Drivers Cost Segments
Crude & Natural Gas Prices Exploration, Drilling & Extraction
Production Volume & Available Reserves Transportation & Storage Costs
Sale of Refined products & Refining Margins Energy & Labor Costs
GROWTH DRIVERS -
• Rising domestic demand for oil, driven by rapid industrialization and
urbanization.
• Expanding refining capacity, expected to reach 310 million tonnes per annum
(MTPA) by 2028.
• Government policies promoting ethanol blending and investment in
infrastructure
• CHALLENGES –
• Environmental pressures to reduce carbon emissions and transition to
cleaner energy
• Heavy reliance on crude oil imports (over 80%), making the industry
vulnerable to global price fluctuations.
Industry Metrics
Overview of the industry


===== PAGE 304 =====

• Integrated Model: Companies like Reliance operate across upstream, midstream, and downstream segments, controlling the full value chain for 
efficiency
• Upstream Model: ONGC focuses on exploration and production, supplying crude to downstream companies.
• Downstream Model: BPCL and HPCL prioritize refining and retailing petroleum products.
• Natural Gas Distribution: GAIL leads in transporting and distributing natural gas through pipelines
Porter five forces
Threat of New Entrants: Low due to high capital requirements, 
regulatory hurdles, and established infrastructure
Bargaining Power of Suppliers: High; oilfield service & equipment 
providers wield power; Indian oil imports reliant on OPEC & others 
Bargaining Power of Buyers: Moderate; industrial consumers buy in 
large volumes; consumers are price-sensitive 
Threat of Substitutes: High; growing with renewable energy and 
electric vehicles offering cleaner alternatives
Industry Rivalry: High; competition among domestic and international 
players for market share and diversification across the value chain
Industry Specifics
• Upstream: Involves exploration and production of crude oil and gas, led by 
ONGC and Cairn India
• Downstream: Focuses on refining and retailing petroleum products, 
dominated by IOCL and Reliance
• Natural Gas: Transporting and distributing natural gas via pipelines, with 
GAIL and IOCL leading
• Refined Products: Includes petrol, diesel, LPG, and jet fuel, distributed 
through vast retail networks
PESTLE
• Political: Supportive government policies driving ethanol blending 
and infrastructure investments; focus on reducing imports and 
increasing domestic production
• Economic: Strong GDP growth and industrialization drive demand 
for oil, but global price volatility affects the industry
• Environmental: Pressure to reduce carbon emissions and shift to 
renewable energy sources
Oil & Gas In-Depth Analysis
An Attempt to give future consultants a better idea of the industry
• Export of Refined Products: India exported 51.4 MMT of refined 
petroleum products in FY24, hence a key player in the global refining market
• Pipeline Infrastructure: India’s crude oil pipeline network spans over 
10,000 km, supporting efficient transportation
• Strategic Oil Reserves: India’s strategic petroleum reserves, which 
provide buffer stock during price volatility, are planned for expansion
• Policy Support: Government policies like 100% FDI and the National 
Biofuel Policy boost domestic production and cut imports
Market Segments
Further Reading: IBEF Report 
BUSINESS MODELS


===== PAGE 305 =====

Industry 
Structure
(FY24 -> ~164 bn transactions worth INR 2.4 tn)
Market Consolidation by Visa, MasterCard, PhonePe, 
Google Pay, RuPay  (Digital Pmt. YoY Growth 11%)
Recent Updates
• Global UPI Expansion simplifying payments
• UPI-Lite launched, enabling offline payments
• Central Bank Digital Currency e-Rupi launch in 2022
Key 
Performance
Indicators
(KPIs)
• Payment Conversion Rate: % of successful 
transactions; Useful to measure by bank, payment 
mode & card type
• Transaction Volume and Value: Total # and value 
of transactions over a specific period.
• Cart Abandonment Rate: Due to complex 
checkout, security concerns, popups, etc
• Chargeback Ratio: % of chargebacks 
(disputes/fraud) out of total transactions
• Platform Uptime: System failures result in 
downtime resulting in lost business
Industry 
Terminologies
• Point of Sale (POS): The location or device where a 
customer makes a payment, such as a cash register, 
card terminal or an app
• Payment Service Provider (PSP): Entity that 
offers services to merchants, enabling them to accept 
& process payments from users
Payments
Revenue & Cost Drivers
Growth Drivers and Challenges
Revenue Segments Cost Segments
Transaction Volume Infrastructure Costs
Merchant Discount Rate (MDR) Compliance & Regulatory Costs
Subscription Fees Customer Acquisition & 
Marketing Expenses
GROWTH DRIVERS -
• Government Initiatives: Initiatives like Digital India, JAM Trinity and UPI 
have facilitated digital payments and driven industry growth.
• Consumer Mindset Change: Increasing acceptance of digital payments 
driven by tech-savvy Gen Z & Millennial population
• Fintech Innovation: Introducing accessible, affordable & convenient 
solutions changing how Indians transact
• CHALLENGES –
• Rural Adoption: Low digital literacy rates & lack of adequate infrastructure 
pose threats to widespread adoption of digital payments
• Cybersecurity Risks: Digital transactions are prone to fraud and breach 
possibilities requiring robust security measures
Industry Metrics
• Provides means to enable 
transactions
• Passes information & 
settles funds between 
acquirer & issuer
• Initiates payments to 
merchants through 
electronic means for goods 
& services in online/offline 
settings
• Provides merchants with 
means to accept 
electronic payments
• Collects payments from 
issuer banks
• Creates merchant account 
with acquirer for 
transactions 
• Pays % of the transaction 
as fees
• Provides credit/debit 
accounts to users & 
complete payments
• Approve or Decline 
transactions
Issuer Network Consumer Acquirer Merchant
Overview of the industry


===== PAGE 306 =====

• PSP: Intermediary between merchants, customers, and financial institutions, ensuring secure fund transfer (RazorPay, PayU)
• UPI & Wallet Providers: Enable money transfer between bank accounts or through app-based e-wallets (GooglePay, PhonePe, PayTM)
• Payment Networks: Operating networks connecting banks, merchants, and consumers for transaction processing (AmEx, Visa, RuPay)
• FinTech Start-ups: Introducing innovative payment solutions and value-added services such as lending & security (BharatPe, CRED)
Porter five forces
• Threat of New Entrants: High, as low entry barriers attract new 
players, increasing competition for established firms
• Bargaining Power of Buyers: High, as customer loyalty is low due 
to numerous options offering rewards & cashbacks
• Bargaining Power of Suppliers: Moderate, network and 
infrastructure providers enjoy considerable power
• Threat of Substitutes: High, Constantly evolving payment methods 
& technologies pose a threat to traditional systems
• Industry Rivalry: High, Intense competition among payment service 
providers affects pricing and market share.
Industry Specifics
• Political: Numerous policies & regulations by the Govt. & RBI boosting 
growth of digital payments adoption in India
• Social: Increasing consumer acceptance with rising digital penetration
• Technological: Rapid technological advancement in FinTech space 
influence payment methods, security & speed
• Legal: Data protection laws and consumer rights regulations
Payments In-Depth Analysis
An Attempt to give future consultants a better idea of the industry
• Launch of ONDC: Open Network for Digital Commerce will enable small 
merchants & local retailers to build businesses online, which will facilitate 
widespread adoption of digital payment methods
• FASTag Implementation: Mandatory installation of tags on vehicles for toll 
collection enabled digital volumes of ₹170 Cr+/day
• Cross-Border Payments: New age FinTech innovations & Bharat Bill 
Payment System (BBPS) upgrades, cross-border UPI enabled for select countries
• Interchange Fees: Paid between issuer & acquirer for transactions
• Alternative Payment Rail: LPSS (by RBI) is an alternate payment system to 
cater during natural calamities / disruptions, independent of traditional systems
PESTLE
Market Segments
BUSINESS MODELS
• Point of Sale Payments: Can be QR Code based (UPI), UPI ID based, phone 
number based, Card based (Credit/Debit/Prepaid), or Net Banking
• Online Payments: Purchase of goods & services via e-commerce platforms & 
websites facilitated via Cards(Debit/Credit), UPI, Net Banking, Buy Now Pay 
Later Schemes, Wallets and EMI Plans
• B2B Payments: Corporate Payments through RTGS, NEFT, IMPS, BBPS 


===== PAGE 307 =====

Industry 
Structure
• Highly competitive industry with large organized 
players & smaller players as well 
• Key Players (revenues): Sun Pharmaceuticals 
($2.4B), Dr Reddy’s Laboratory ($3.35B), Cipla 
($3B), Lupin ($2.4B), Aurobindo Pharma Ltd. ($1.3B) 
Industry Size • Currently valued at ~$50B - Exports account for ~ 
56% of total value (12th highest globally)
Key 
Performance 
Indicators 
(KPIs)
• Time to Market: Measures the time it takes to 
bring a drug from discovery to market
• Return on research capital (RORC): Calculated 
by dividing current gross profits by the prior year's 
R&D expenditures
• Health Outcome Improvement: Measures the 
impact of pharmaceutical products on patient health 
outcomes
Industry 
Terminologies
• Generics – Drugs that are not under patent 
protection, and can thus be copied
• OTC – Drugs that can be sold directly to customers 
without a prescription
• API – Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient, the key raw 
material of a drug that causes the drug to have its 
desired effect
Pharmaceuticals
• Clinical Trials (Human)
• Approvals for marketing & 
selling (granted by MoH)
• Securing Patents
• Production line set up
• RM procurement
• Quality control
• Packaging
• Storage & 
Transportation
• Distribution to 
wholesalers and  
distributors
• Endorsement by medical 
practitioners
• DTC advertising (OTC 
products only)
• Medical Conferences
• Drug research (high 
gestation period and low 
success rate)
• Formulation/licensing of 
pre-made formulas
R & D Approvals Sourcing & Production Distribution Marketing
Revenue & Cost Drivers
Growth Drivers and Challenges
Revenue Segments Cost Segments
Drug Sales Research and Development
Licensing Manufacturing
Contract Manufacturing services Distribution & Storage
Contract R&D services Marketing
GROWTH DRIVERS –
• Rising consumer spend on healthcare driven by healthcare awareness
• High demand for generic Indian drug exports due to lower cost of 
production in India
• Rise in medical tourism in India and focus on biotech and specialty drugs
CHALLENGES –
• Increasing scrutiny on Indian drugmakers by FDA leading to more 
stringent quality norms from US and other export markets
• Restrictions on marketing of certain drugs to consumers
• High capital requirements for R&D – Drug discovery usually has a 
long gestation period coupled with low success rate
Industry Metrics
Overview of the industry

===== PAGE 308 =====

• Manufacturing – Manufacture and market both generic and speciality drugs – selling them through direct and indirect channels
• Licensing – Patent production process of a drug and license the formula to other drug makers (Patents usually hold up to 20 years)
• Contract Research and Manufacturing (CRAMS)– Carry out specific research or manufacturing activities on contract for other companies
Porter Five Forces
• Bargaining power of suppliers – Low; Most of the raw material 
and equipment required for production is available with multiple 
suppliers
• Bargaining power of buyers – Medium; Varies upon the type of 
consumer– low for retail consumers but high for hospital chains
• Threat of substitutes – Low; substitutes unavailable barring some 
alternate treatments such as Ayurveda
• Threat of new entrants – Low; Highly regulated industry with 
Government norms and high capital requirements
• Competitive rivalry – High; Presence of large-scale & 
established players as well as numerous small players
• Prescription – Drugs for complex ailments such as cancer & heart 
diseases – restriction on production, generally patented
• Generic – Can be produced by anyone as the patent has expired
• OTC Medications – Generic drugs available without prescription
• Wellness Products – Non-medicinal wellness products such as protein 
powders, cold-pressed oils, etc.
PESTLE
• Social – Higher life expectancies with more sedentary lifestyles –
leading to increased spend on healthcare 
• Political – Jan Aushadhi Kendras, PLI schemes with outlay of $2.4bn
• Tech – HealthTech incl. e-Pharmacy & e-Diagnostics; Telemedicine
• Legal – Select therapeutic drugs sale legalized without prescription
Pharmaceuticals In-Depth Analysis
An Attempt to give future consultants a better idea of the industry
• Emergence of DTC Platforms – Numerous D2C pharmacies such as 
TATA 1MG, Flipkart Health, Pharmeasy have emerged to improve 
accessibility to both generic and specialty drugs
• Lack of R&D Focus – The Indian Pharma industry hasn’t invested heavily 
in R&D capabilities – it largely focuses on manufacturing generics
• High Reliance on Exports – A large number of scaled Indian pharma 
companies derive more than half of their revenues from exports; key 
markets are the US and Europe
• API Imports – High dependence on China for key raw materials
• Endorsement by Doctors – Relies heavily on endorsement by Doctors; 
collaborating with them (using sales reps) is an important sales strategy
Market Segments
Further Reading: IBEF Report; Sources: Tata Health
Business Models
Industry Specifics


===== PAGE 309 =====

Industry 
Structure
• Market share by total installed capacity– Private 
(51%) and Government (49%)
• Adani Transmission, NTPC, Power Grid, are the top 
players overall
• Tata Power Solar, Suzlon Energy, ReNew Power are 
the top renewable energy players
Industry 
Behaviour
• Loss absorbed by generators & distributors, rise in 
input costs not passed on to consumers
• Geopolitical dynamics impact crude oil and natural 
gas imports
Key 
Performance
Indicators
• Installed capacity – Max Power a plant can supply
• Availability factor – % operating time of plant
• Collection efficiency – Revenue/Billed total
• Plant Load Factor – Average Power generated  /       
Maximum Power generated
Industry 
Terminologies
• DISCOM – Distribution Companies
• Independent Power Producers (IPPs) – Pvt. 
companies that generate & sell electricity
• Captive Power Plants – Industries that generate 
their own electricity 
• Smart Grid – Integrates energy storage and tech to 
improve efficiency of power systems
Power
• Hydropower
• Thermal plants
• Solar farms
• Wind farms
• Nuclear Power Plants
• Transmission of electricity 
through high-voltage lines
• Substation management
• Electricity supply to 
end-user through low-
voltage lines by local 
distributors
• Residential, commercial, 
and industrial locations
• Metering, billing, and 
customer service
• Fossil fuels: Coal, Oil, 
Natural gas
• Nuclear: Uranium
• Renewable: Solar, Wind, 
Geothermal, Hy.
Energy Sources Generation Transmission Distribution Retail
Revenue & Cost Drivers
Growth Drivers and Challenges
Revenue Segments Cost Segments
Tariff structures (incl. Fixed charge 
and Fuel surcharge) RM(Fuels), Infrastructure & Maintenance
Energy trading Transmission & distribution losses
Energy storage Regulatory/Environmental compliance
GROWTH DRIVERS -
• Economic expansion and urbanization, growing population with increasing
electrification (incl. electrification of mobility) and per-capita usage
• Rural electrification through government schemes (Deen Dayal Upadhyay
Gram Jyoti Yojana, Village Energy Security etc.)
• Green energy corridor and solar-wind hybrid projects expected to
augment electrification across the country
CHALLENGES –
• Low operational and financial sustainability of Distribution Companies
(DISCOM) due to delayed payments; prevalence of high NPAs
• High Power theft leading to revenue loss and higher load and wear & tear
• Decarbonizing and move towards renewable sources(generally low reliability
and stability) thus reducing dependence on coal
Industry Metrics
Overview of the industry

===== PAGE 310 =====

11%
33%
54%
Nuclear Hydro
Renewables Conventional
• Power generation – Power generators operate plants to produce electricity and sell it to distribution companies
• Power distribution – DISCOMs enter into Power Purchase Agreements with generators, with predetermined tariffs for specific regions
• Trading – Online platforms facilitating trading of electricity among generators, consumers, and traders
• Energy infrastructure – Maintaining and leasing infrastructure for power generation and distribution
• Energy as a service – Digital tech and distributed energy resources used to supply energy and manage energy systems 
Porter Five Forces
• Bargaining power of suppliers – Moderate; Multiple suppliers 
of key resources exist in the market
• Bargaining power of buyers – Low; Govt regulated energy price
• Threat of new entrants – Low; There exist high capital 
requirement and regulatory barriers 
• Threat of substitutes – Moderate; There are increasing number 
of renewable energy sources
• Competitive rivalry – High; Competitive market with 
government and private players vying for market share
Industry Specifics
• Political – Rolling out of electrification schemes and priority funding 
through DDUGY, PM Surya Ghar, Saubhagya
• Technological – Integrating renewables through smart grid initiatives 
as part of the National Smart Grid Mission
• Environmental – India’s pledge to reduce emission intensity of its 
GDP by 45% by 2030
Power In-Depth Analysis
An Attempt to give future consultants a better idea of the industry
• High production and consumption – India is the third-largest producer 
and consumer of electricity, with total installed power capacity of 430GW
• Renewable Energy – India ranks fourth in wind power and fifth in solar 
power capacity, with an overall power capacity of 195GW. The target is to 
increase this to 500GW by 2030. 
• Freebies Promised – Free electricity is a common poll promise made by 
political parties
• FDI – 100% FDI allowed by government in energy and power sector
Installed Capacity of Different Sources
Business Models
Solar: 19%
Wind: 10%
Biomass: 2%
PESTLE


===== PAGE 311 =====

Industry 
Structure
• Food & Grocery contributes 63.30% to total 
market of INR 1.2 Tn (FY 2023) in India, expected 
to reach INR 1.88 Tn by 2030
Recent Updates
• India’s CPI based retail inflation eased to 4.83% in 
Apr’24, compared to 6.44% in Feb’23
• ONDC initiative could disrupt industry ops.
Key 
Performance
Indicators
(KPIs)
• Sales per Square Foot – Total net Sales/Total 
square feet
• Avg Transaction Value – Total Sales/Number of 
Transactions
• Customer retention rate – (((Total distinct 
customers at end of period) - (Total new distinct 
customers acquired during period)) / (Total distinct 
customers at start of period)
• Foot traffic vs digital traffic
• Inventory Turnover – Net Sales/Avg. Inventory
Industry 
terminologies
• PoS– Point of Sale system
• CRM – Customer Relationship Management
• Omnichannel Marketing 
• SKU – Stock-keeping unit
Retail
• Network Optimization
• Transportation
• Cold chain management
• Receiving & unloading
• Storage & 
ware housing
• Allotment & scheduling
• Merchandising
• Promotions & Discounts
• Cross-selling
• Digital S&M
• Payment Options
• On-Time, In-Full delivery
• Route analysis
• Order Tracking
• Warranty & Services
• Vendor selection & 
management
• Demand forecasting
• Price forecasting
• Quality testing
Sourcing Inbound Logistics Inventory Sales & Marketing Outbound logistics
Revenue & Cost Drivers
Growth Drivers and Challenges
Revenue Segments Cost Segments
Own brand (private
label) sales Retail Lease
Loyalty & rewards programmes COGS & supply chain
Affiliate marketing Credit card fees
Cross-selling Utilities/labour & other op-ex
GROWTH DRIVERS –
• Availability of labour, low costs & special investment wages such as tax
breaks encourage FDIs
• Easy payment options such as UPI, BNPL
• Expansion of E-commerce, M-commerce. Data-driven insights. (e-retail
penetration: 4.3% in India vs ~25% in UK, China, Korea)
CHALLENGES –
• Fragmented logistics
• Rise of digitization and low adoption by small retailers
• Rise of e-commerce giants may hamper growth
Industry Metrics
Overview of the industry


===== PAGE 312 =====

• Independent retailer – Run and managed by owners; generally operates one outlet and provides personalized service
• Retail chain – Common ownership of multiple units, decision-making is centralized; low entry-level risks, high goodwill & branding
• Retail franchising – Using another firm’s successful business model with the franchisor’s support (Ex: food chains such as McDonalds’s & Subway). 
Higher equity share but revenue/profit sharing. 
• Retail cooperatives – Group of individual retailers who combine their financial resources & expertise to control wholesaling needs
Porter five forces
• Bargaining power of suppliers – High; organized retail is 
dominated by few large players who control margins
• Bargaining power of buyers – High; supply is elastic and buyers 
have access to large number of retailers
• Threat of new entrants – High; low barriers to entry, 
government support
• Threat of substitutes – High; since there is limited product 
differentiation, substitutability is high
• Competitive rivalry – High, since the traditional channel is 
operating at high costs and low margin expectations
Industry Specifics
• Food & Grocery – ~63.30% contribution to retail in FY 2022 (Ex: Big 
Bazaar, DMart, Reliance Fresh)
• Jewellery – ~8.60% market share in FY 2022 (Ex: Kalyan Jewellers, PC 
Jewellers)
• Apparel – Apparel contributed to ~7.90% market share in FY 2022
• Others – Others are Furniture, Consumer Durables, Mobile, etc.
PESTLE
• Political & Legal – GOI has allowed 100% FDI in online retail. 
Retail & wholesale traders now considered MSMEs to get priority 
sector lending
• Environmental – Sustainability, environmental & ecological factors 
driving consumer demand
Retail In-Depth Analysis
An Attempt to give future consultants a better idea of the industry
• Rise of e-commerce – Online retail is projected to grow 2.5x faster 
than offline retail market
• Payment modes – Flourishing digital payment ecosystem in India. 
Cashless transactions and credit options have increased leading to 
simpler payment mechanisms
• Seasonal Demand– Managing Inventory, marketing while accounting 
for seasonality trends
• Premium segment – Demand for “premium” products rising
• Omni-channel Retailing – Seamless experience for customers
Market Segments
BUSINESS MODELS


===== PAGE 313 =====

Industry 
Structure
• Generally Oligopolistic across the globe
• Eg: Top 4 players cover 99% Indian Market 
• (Jio – 35%, Airtel – 31%, VI - 22%, BSNL – 10%)
Recent 
Updates
• Diversification into satellite-based broadband 
(Starlink, OneWeb)
• Spectrum Auction in 2023-24 in India (141 MHz+ 
quantum of spectrum sold for ₹11.3k+ Crores)
• Steady 5G rollout (1/3rd globally by 2025; projected)
Key 
Performance
Indicators
(KPIs)
• Churn Rate – Lost Customers / Total #
• Avg. Return per User (ARPU) – Tracks revenues 
earned for each service user
• Subscriber Acquisition Cost – Tracks costs spent 
in marketing, sales, etc for acquisition
• Network Promoter Score – Likelihood of 
consumer recommending services (1-10)
• Network Performance – Tracks availability, 
accessibility, integrity & retainability
Industry 
terminologies
• Spectrum – Band of radio frequencies over which 
communication signals can traverse
• Tele Density – Number of telephone connections 
per 100 people in an area; indicator of level of 
market penetration
Telecom
• Provide Software Tech. for 
4G/5G
• Integrate software & 
hardware for telecom 
companies
• Deploy & own towers 
under infra-sharing 
agreements with network 
operators
• Own and control access 
to radio wave spectrum 
via auction
• Involved in Spectrum 
Trading
• Purchase capacity from 
network operators to 
service general public
• Offerings – Voice Call, 
messaging & internet
• Network Components & 
Hardware (cable, router, 
etc) Sellers
• End-user distribution
Equip. Providers IntegratorsTower Infra Network Operator Service Providers
Revenue & Cost Drivers
Growth Drivers and Challenges
Revenue Segments Cost Segments
Call + SMS + Internet Plans 
(Postpaid/Prepaid/Roaming Packs) Spectrum + Infrastructure Costs
Broadband & DTH Services Network Operating Costs
Data Monetization, Partnerships (Spectrum 
Lease) & Affiliations (OTT) Customer Acquisition Costs
GROWTH DRIVERS -
• IoT – Rising IoT adoption across Smart Cities, Industries shall need high-
speed transmission which 5G can facilitate [1]
• Increasing investments & diversification into SatelliteBroadband
CHALLENGES –
• High Interest Rates – Since Telecom is CAPEX-intensive, high rates make
it harder & more expensive for 4G/5G deployment
• Declining ARPU – As firms in developing countries (India) compete over
price, ARPU figures are declining
• Forces of Commoditization at play – Markets are moving towards
saturation, leading to price wars, fight for market share and struggle for
innovation & new use-cases
Industry Metrics
Overview of the industry


===== PAGE 314 =====

• Prepaid v/s Postpaid Services – Whether payment for the service is done in advance (recharge/top-up) or after consumption (monthly cycles)
• Bunding of Services – Multiple offerings under one service – Eg: High-speed internet, entertainment (OTT, music), data packs & offers 
• Broadband – Superfast internet for home/commercial usage along with multitude of complementary offerings
• B2B – Cloud, IoT, Voice & Collaboration, Landline, Data Connectivity and Security solutions for enterprises (Jio/Airtel/Verizon, etc)
Porter five forces
• Bargaining power of suppliers – Moderate, as switching costs are 
high but a large supplier—base for inputs exists
• Bargaining power of buyers – High, Buyers are price-sensitive and 
companies compete in quality, pricing, functionalities to attract 
consumers; Buyers are advantaged due to low switching costs
• Threat of new entrants – Weak; Large CAPEX required and high 
economies of scale; Complex regulatory environment to navigate
• Threat of substitutes – Moderate, due to rise of cheap internet-
based communications (VoIP) & satellite communications
• Competitive rivalry – Strong; Mature Industry having intense 
competition among players to capture price-sensitive consumers
Industry Specifics
• Wireless (50-60%)– Cellular Phones (Calls, Data) v/s Fixed Line (40-50%)–
Voice Telephony & Internet fixed lines
• B2B v/s B2C Sales – Monthly subscription plans for consumers compared to 
enterprise sales comprising of unified communication offerings.
PESTLE
• Legal – Complex country-wise regulations; Competition Law
• Economic – High interest rates make telecom costly due to CAPEX, 
while inflation reduces consumer purchasing power
• Political – Ban & phase-out of Huawei over privacy issues
• Technological – 5G integration with IoT, Cloud; Sat. Comm.
Telecom In-Depth Analysis
An Attempt to give future consultants a better idea of the industry
• Spectrum Auction – Govt. sells rights to network operators to transmit 
signals over specific airwave bands(India – DoT; US – FCC)
• Telecom Infrastructure – Telecom Towers (structures relaying mobile 
signals), Switches, Transmission Lines, routers, modems
• Infrastructure Sharing – Sharing electric/non-electric infra. At base site; 
leasing out portion of spectrum to rival; Competitors collaborate to lower 
individual investment costs.
• Bundling of Services – Various services such as broadband, voice, OTT, cable 
TV, etc. provided as one whole packaged offering
• M&A Consolidation – Merger of smaller entities into larger firms leading to 
oligopolistic structure in most markets
Market Segments
BUSINESS MODELS


===== PAGE 315 =====

Appendices


===== PAGE 316 =====

Appendix: IIMA 
Consult Primer


===== PAGE 317 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Tech Consulting: Implementation of ERP,  advisory 
related to IT, data analytics, cyber security, system 
integration etc., fall under this area
Financial Advisory: includes consultation on corporate 
finance, actuarial valuation, corporate restructuring, risk 
management, forensic audits etc. 
Human Resources: Includes organizational change, 
learning and development, HR technology, benefits and 
rewards, talent management
Operations Consulting: Includes process and project 
management, supply chain, procurement, outsourcing etc.
Strategy Consulting:  Corporate strategy, economic 
policy, mergers & acquisitions, organizational & 
functional strategy are part of this
• Giving external advice to
organizations that may require
special or technical expertise or an
outside perspective on their
business problems, performance
improvement etc.
• Consultants are “problem solvers
for hire”
• They use a multi-pronged approach,
involving primary and secondary
research combined with business
intuition from their extensive
experience in the industry to
understand business problems and
provide recommendations
• In summary, it is helping CEOs and
other leaders solve pertinent
business problems and implement
solutions
What is Consulting? Key service areas
Consulting Overview
Page 3172024-2025

===== PAGE 318 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Define
• Drive expansion in 
sales by 20% by 
identifying new 
markets and 
formulating a sales 
strategy to capture 
market share
Hypothesize
• Expanding to xyz
markets will generate 
high profits due to 
high size and low 
competition
• Introducing 
decentralized sales 
team will improve 
sales by 10%
Data Analysis
• Analyse sales and 
market data for five 
different geographies 
and identify potential 
opportunities for the 
client
• Understand the 
competitive landscape 
through secondary 
research
Recommend
• Setting up sales team 
in 2 identified 
geographies for 
expanding presence in 
these geographies
• Detailed marketing 
plan (products sold, 
price, promotion 
strategies in these 
geographies)
1 3
2 4
Project – Increase sales through market expansion for a yarn manufacturing company
Steps to Problem Solving (an example)
Page 3182024-2025

===== PAGE 319 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Implementation projects:  There is an increase in the number of implementation projects for firms. 
Clients are focusing more on outputs rather than inputs
Technological advancements:  Technology is changing the consulting landscape. Consultants are 
expected to understand and implement the state-of-art-technology in various fields
Increasing specialization:  There is an increase in the specialization, hyper specialization in services 
as well as market segment owing to sophisticated client demands
Risk-based consulting:  Increase in projects where there is a shared risk of the firm with the client. 
Hitherto, client carried the majority of the risk of any project which is shifting to consulting firms
Internal consulting:  Many companies are creating in-house strategy and consulting teams. This has 
increased the competition in the industry and a downward pressure on billing rates. Clients are looking 
for more value addition and focusing on output generation
Emerging Trends in Consulting
Page 3192024-2025

===== PAGE 320 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
• Meet office colleagues, build network
• Finish expense bookings and make travel 
arrangements
• Meet EM, propose plan for the week
• Problem solving sessions, discussion on structure 
and hypothesis, checking progress of team
• Major client meetings every 3-4 weeks
• Meet with partner every 2-3 weeks
• Monday – early morning flight to client location
• Thursday/Friday – return flight
Friday
Weekdays
Logistics
Project team Structure
Partner (not full-time) + 
EM + 2/3 Associates
Time
9 AM – 9 PM+
Other activities
Team events, dinners, 
offsites, trainings etc.
Typical work dynamics
A Consultant’s Calendar (typically)
Page 3202024-2025

===== PAGE 321 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
2 years 3-4 
years
2-3 
years
3-4 
years NA
Business 
Analyst
Associate/
Consultant
Engagement 
Manager Principal Partner
• Pre-MBA position
• Responsibilities: 
data gathering 
and analysis, 
documentation, 
modelling, admin 
and coordination, 
problem solving
• Post-MBA
• Responsibilities: 
increasing focus 
on leading 
analysts, 
overseeing their 
work, more client 
interface, 
problem solving
• Team Leads
• Responsibilities: 
work stream 
planning, team 
leadership, key 
client interface 
for projects, 
relationship 
management
• Pre-partner role
• Responsibilities: 
professional 
support and 
oversight on 
projects, client 
relationship 
management, 
business 
development
• Leadership role
• Responsibilities: 
client relationship 
management, 
business 
development, 
thought 
leadership, 
internal 
initiatives, firm 
policy
Career Progression (typically)
Page 3212024-2025

===== PAGE 322 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
• Work in various sectors/industry in initial years
• Type of project – performance improvement, 
market entry, growth etc.
Rigorous work and long hours: 
Consultants spend a lot of hours 
working, sometimes averaging more than 12 
hours a day, depending on client deadlines.
Work can sometimes be stressful; 
consultants are often thrown into the deep 
end with minimal training, and they learn on 
the job.
Travel: Travelling every week may not 
suit everyone, especially for those who 
live with their families, spouses etc., 
being away from home for 5 days a 
week may be difficult.
Also, travel may sometimes be to client 
locations in remote areas, which may 
be cumbersome.
• Solving large scale business problems in a 
structured way
• Steep learning curve
• High ownership of work
• Soft skills development
Intellectually rewarding
Diversity in work
• People of similar age group from different 
academic/professional backgrounds
Collegial work environment
• The pay is good, and the lifestyle is glamourous
Good pay and perks
• Corporates (general management/leadership)
• Private Equity/Venture Capital
• Entrepreneurship
• Public Policy
Lucrative exit options
Why join consulting?
But, be prepared for...
Page 3222024-2025

===== PAGE 323 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Fit
CV Shortlists, cover letters, 
HRQs, dinners, events
Simulation
2-3 case interviews Hiring decision
What are they looking for
Problem Solving Skills
Analytical abilities, business acumen
Tested in case interviews
(can be highlighted through 
academics/projects)
Soft Skills
Communication skills, teamwork
Usually tested in interviews
(can be highlighted through active 
contribution in sports/events)
Leadership and Drive
Initiatives, track record
Usually tested in interviews
(can be highlighted through active 
contribution in sports/events)
CV Variant 
freeze
Company 
presentations
Cluster X 
(Mock Placement Drive)
Company 
shortlists
Dinners/buddy 
calls
Cluster 1
Hiring Process
Page 3232024-2025

===== PAGE 324 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
Highlight PORs well: These show your 
leadership qualities and ability to get work 
done. It can show your ability to work in a 
team if framed well.
Outcome/ Impact vs Process: Focus 
more on the results of your work more 
than how you did it. The profession 
demands it, so why not start from your CV?
Spikes: Your CV is your story and 
spikes are the highlights, use these well. 
Helps to have a couple in all buckets or 
more in less buckets.
Quantify Impact: It always helps to 
put a number to your work instead of 
using generic words like several, 
immense, etc. 
Simplify: The recruiters have a large 
number of CVs to go through. Hence, the 
easier you make it for them to understand 
your story, the better. Do not use jargon 
and abbreviations.
Drafting: Be specific while framing your 
points, use action verbs to signal strong 
impact and write in active voice rather 
than passive.
Highlight Initiatives: A significant part 
of the job involves thinking out of the 
box for solving problems & taking 
the lead. Show that in your CV.
Highlight judiciously: Save the time 
of the recruiter by putting the most 
relevant part of your point in the 
front. Bold the important parts.
CV that will help you to bag a Consulting Internship
Page 3242024-2025

===== PAGE 325 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
• Excel skills: Basic 
analytical functions and 
clean formatting
• PPT making: Ability to 
present information in a 
succinct manner with a 
simple design
• Oral: Active participation 
in meetings by asking 
questions and adding your 
own insights
• Written: Writing crisp 
emails that clearly highlight 
the key message
• Note-taking: Taking 
detailed notes during 
meetings and sharing 
insights with the team
• Organization skills:  
Organizing your inbox and 
structured documentation 
of sources
• During the 
week: Prioritise tasks, 
apply Pareto principle, 
leverage knowledge teams
• Reflect during the 
weekends: Set targets 
and review, organise 
thoughts, remove clutter
• Problem structuring: 
Breaking down the 
problem into smaller parts 
based on business context
• Insight generation: 
Ability to identify the key 
insights obtained from the 
data analysis
• Among peers: Leverage 
internship to interact with 
a diverse set of people
• Among people at the 
firm: Proactively reach 
out, understand culture, 
get tips on navigating 
career
Skills that will help you ace a Consulting Internship
Technical skills
Tactical skills
Communication 
skills Analytical skills
Negotiation skills Time Mgmt. skills
Page 3252024-2025

===== PAGE 326 =====

Appendix: 
Strengthening your 
tool-kit


===== PAGE 327 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
A compilation of data that will be useful for solving guesstimates. Most of these numbers are approximations, but they 
should be good enough for a guesstimate scenario.
Total Population 1450
Males 748
Females 702
Sex Ratio 94%*
Urban Population 530 (37%)
Rural Population 920 (63%)
Table 1: Population Distribution in India 
(Gender and Urban-Rural)
Figures are in millions
* ~940 females for 1000 males
Overall Expectancy 70.6
Male Expectancy 69.6
Female Expectancy 73.3
Birth Rate* 16.7
Death Rate* 7.4
Population Growth Rate 0.9%
Table 2: Life Expectancy and Population 
Growth Statistics
* Figures are for every 1000 individuals
Age Group Population(%)
0-12 Years 21.2%
13-24 Years 21.2%
25-34 Years 16.7%
35-44 Years 14.4%
45-54 Years 11.2%
55+ Years 15.3%
Table 3: Age-wise Population distribution
Table 6: Demographic by Religion
Religion Hindu Muslim Christian Others
Population 80% 14% 2.5% 3.5%
Data Head India Urban Rural
Size of Household 5 5 5
Household Income (in Rs) 2,50,000 3,50,000 2,00,000
% Savings 27% 32% 23%
Expenses (Food) 50% 45% 55%
Expenses (Travel) 10% 8% 13%
Expenses (Others) 40% 45% 33%
Table 4: Income and Expenditure
Poverty: ~10% Population lives below the poverty line (~$2 or Rs. 150) 
Annual Household Income (INR p.a.) Percentage
Low Income Households (Less than 1,00,000) 12%
Lower middle Income (1,00,000 to 2,00,000) 38%
Middle Income (2,00,000 to 5,00,000) 35%
Upper Middle Income (5,00,000 to 10,00,000) 13%
High Income Households (More than 10,00,000) 2%
Table 5: Class Distribution by Annual Household Income
Datasheets (1/2)
* 2024 figures have been taken for the datasheet estimates
Page 3272024-2025

===== PAGE 328 =====

(C) Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad
 Page 328
A compilation of data that will be useful for solving guesstimates. Most of these numbers are approximations, but they should be good enough 
for a guesstimate scenario.
City Population City Population
1. Delhi 34 6. Hyderabad 11
2. Mumbai 22 7. Ahmedabad 9
3. Kolkata 16 8. Surat 8
4. Bengaluru 14 9. Pune 8
5. Chennai 12 10. Jaipur 4.5
Table 7: Population spread of Metros (Millions)
Figures are in millions
• Population residing in Top 10 cities = 135M
• Population residing in Top 50 cities = 220M
• Population residing in Top 100 cities = 255M
Sector India Urban Rural
Agriculture 40% 5% 55%
Industry 26% 32% 23%
Services 34% 63% 22%
Table 8: Sector-wise Employment Distribution
Datasheets (2/2)
* 2024 figures have been taken for the datasheet estimates
2024-2025

===== PAGE 329 =====

All the Best!
© 2024, Consult Club, IIM Ahmedabad  
All rights reserved
For any queries, feedback, 
and all things consulting, 
feel free to reach out to us:
consultclub_iima
Earth globe: Asia and Australia with solid fill
https://students.iima.ac.in/
ConsultClub/members.php
Email with solid fill
consultclub@iima.ac.in 
consult-club-iim-ahmedabad
